docs/guide/usage/touchlink.md, before:

# Touchlink

**Important:** Touchlink **only** works for adapters based on a Texas Instruments chip (chips starting with CC, e.g. CC2652).

Touchlink is a feature of Zigbee which allows devices physically close to each other to communicate with each other **without** being in the same network.

Note that not all Zigbee devices support Touchlink, but most bulbs of common brands like Philips and IKEA support this.

::: tip 
All commands below can also be executed via the frontend *Touchlink* tab.
:::

## Scan
This allows to scan for Touchlink enabled devices. The outcome of this scan can be used later to determine what device to factory reset. To scan send a MQTT message to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/touchlink/scan` with an empty payload.
The response will be send to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/response/touchlink/scan`, example payload: `{"data":{"found":[{"ieee_address": '0x12345678', "channel": 12}, {"ieee_address": '0x12654321', "channel": 24}]},"status":"ok"}`.

## Identify
This allows to identify (e.g. bulb blinking) a device via Touchlink. To identify send a MQTT message to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/touchlink/identify` with payload e.g. `{"ieee_address": '0x12345678', "channel": 12}` (use scan from above to determine `ieee_address` and `channel`).

## Factory reset device
Zigbee2MQTT allows to factory reset devices through Touchlink. This is especially handy for e.g. Philips Hue bulbs as they cannot be factory reset by turning them on/off 5 times. Demo: [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kcRj77YGyKk)

To factory reset a device through Touchlink bring the device close (< 10 cm) to your coordinator (e.g. CC2531 adapter). After this send a MQTT message to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/touchlink/factory_reset` with an empty payload.

Zigbee2MQTT will now start scanning, this can take up to 1 minute and during this scan **your network cannot be used**. After some time the device will identify itself (e.g. a bulb will start to blink).

Now that your device has been factory reset, it will automatically join Zigbee2MQTT (make sure that joining is enabled through `permit_join: true`). If it doesn't, try powering the bulb off and on 1 time.

In case you want to factory reset a specific device (which can be found through a scan, see above) request the factory reset with the following payload: `{"ieee_address": "0x12345678", "channel": 12}`.

Commit message:

Update touchlink.md Touchlink is also supported by Silabs ezsp on EFR32 (#1570)
* Update touchlink.md

Touchlink is also supported by EZSP adapters (all Silicon Labs EFR32 series) if enabled in its Zigbee Coordinator firmware.

* Update touchlink.md also mention Silabs chips

Update touchlink.md also mention Silabs chips

docs/guide/usage/touchlink.md, after:

# Touchlink

**Important:** The touchlinking function **only** works with Zigbee Coordinator adapters based on a Texas Instruments ZNP adapters (TI chips starting with "CC", e.g. CC2652) and Silicon Labs EZSP adapters (Silabs chips starting with "EFR32", e.g. EFR32MG21) with touchlink enabled in the Zigbee Coordinator firmware.

Touchlink is a feature of Zigbee which allows devices physically close to each other to communicate with each other **without** being in the same network.

Note that not all Zigbee devices support Touchlink, but most bulbs of common brands like Philips and IKEA support this.

::: tip 
All commands below can also be executed via the frontend *Touchlink* tab.
:::

## Scan
This allows to scan for Touchlink enabled devices. The outcome of this scan can be used later to determine what device to factory reset. To scan send a MQTT message to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/touchlink/scan` with an empty payload.
The response will be send to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/response/touchlink/scan`, example payload: `{"data":{"found":[{"ieee_address": '0x12345678', "channel": 12}, {"ieee_address": '0x12654321', "channel": 24}]},"status":"ok"}`.

## Identify
This allows to identify (e.g. bulb blinking) a device via Touchlink. To identify send a MQTT message to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/touchlink/identify` with payload e.g. `{"ieee_address": '0x12345678', "channel": 12}` (use scan from above to determine `ieee_address` and `channel`).

## Factory reset device
Zigbee2MQTT allows to factory reset devices through Touchlink. This is especially handy for e.g. Philips Hue bulbs as they cannot be factory reset by turning them on/off 5 times. Demo: [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kcRj77YGyKk)

To factory reset a device through Touchlink bring the device close (< 10 cm) to your Zigbee Coordinator (e.g. Zigbee USB adapter). After this send a MQTT message to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/touchlink/factory_reset` with an empty payload.

Zigbee2MQTT will now start scanning, this can take up to 1 minute and during this scan **your network cannot be used**. After some time the device will identify itself (e.g. a bulb will start to blink).

Now that your device has been factory reset, it will automatically join Zigbee2MQTT (make sure that joining is enabled through `permit_join: true`). If it doesn't, try powering the bulb off and on 1 time.

In case you want to factory reset a specific device (which can be found through a scan, see above) request the factory reset with the following payload: `{"ieee_address": "0x12345678", "channel": 12}`.
