docs/guide/installation/05_windows.md, before:

---
next: ../configuration/
---

# Windows

## Determine which COM port is assigned to your device

1. Connect your sniffer device
1. Open up Start menu and start typing `Device Manager`
1. Expand `Ports (COM & LPT)`
1. Look for a node similar to `USB Serial Device (COM4)`
1. Take note of the port number, it will be needed during configuration

![Device Manager](../../images/devicemanager.png)

## Installing

1. Download and install Node.js 16 LTS from [their website](https://nodejs.org/en/)
1. Open up a `Command prompt` or `Powershell` from the Start menu (Powershell has prettier colors)
1. Verify Node.js was successfully installed
    ```bash
    node --version
    ```
1. Choose a suitable directory for Zigbee2MQTT and copy all the files from the [Zigbee2MQTT repository](https://github.com/koenkk/zigbee2mqtt)
    * if you prefer to use git (which you should), just clone the whole repository
        ```bash
        git clone --depth 1 git@github.com:Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.git
        ```
    * otherwise use the green `Clone or download` button to download the zip archive, then extract it
1. Change to the newly created directory and install dependencies with Node.js own package manager `npm`
    ```bash
    npm ci
    ```

## Configuring

1. Open `data\configuration.yaml` in a text editor
1. Change the serial port configuration to match your setup
    ```yaml
    serial:
        port: \\.\COM4
    ```
1. Make sure other settings are correct as well
1. Save and exit

Congratulations, you're now ready to start your Zigbee2MQTT installation

## Starting Zigbee2MQTT

Just change to the root directory of your installation and run the application:
```bash
npm start
```

A successful setup produces an output similar to this:

```
> zigbee2mqtt@1.6.0 start C:\Users\me\Documents\GitHub\zigbee2mqtt
> node index.js

  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:22 PM Logging to directory: 'D:\Documents\GitHub\zigbee2mqtt\data\log\2019-10-18.22-56-22'
  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:22 PM Starting Zigbee2MQTT version 1.6.0 (commit #e26ad2a)
  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:22 PM Starting zigbee-shepherd
  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:24 PM zigbee-shepherd started
  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:24 PM Coordinator firmware version: '20190608'
```

The `Coordinator firmware version: '20190608'` entry means that Zigbee2MQTT has successfully communicated with the USB sniffer.

Zigbee2MQTT can be stopped anytime by pressing `CTRL + C` and then confirming with `Y`.

Commit message:

Added some extra information on how to get your USB device Virtual COM port visible inside flashing software (#1455)
* Added section to help with using flash programming

It took me a couple of hours to figure out that none of my Windows 10 machines had any drivers installed to communicate with the virtual com port over USB, luckily the community put me on the right path, hence my effort here to try to alleviate this problem for anyone else with the same problem.

Also incorporated sentence / question with possible search query into the explanation to maximize search engine findability.

* Update 05_windows.md

Added information about missing drivers in Windows

* Update README.md

Added link to FTDI

* Add files via upload

* Update README.md

Added PDF version of the .docx document (not everyone has access to MS-Word)

* Update README.md

Edited the wrong line... my bad

* Update README.md

relative paths should work.. hopefully..

* Update README.md

Ok, third time's the charm...

docs/guide/installation/05_windows.md, after:

---
next: ../configuration/
---

# Windows

## Install a USB-to-UART Bridge Virtual COM Port driver
In order to be able to communicate with your USB device over a virtual COM port, you might need a driver for your OS in order for it to be able to be found by your flashing software.

- For CP210x based chipsets, there is a driver available at [Silicon Labs' website](https://www.silabs.com/developers/usb-to-uart-bridge-vcp-drivers).
- For CC1352/CC2652/CC2538 based chipsets, have a look at [FTDI chip's website](https://ftdichip.com/drivers/vcp-drivers/) for drivers.

## Determine which COM port is assigned to your device

1. Connect your sniffer device
1. Open up Start menu and start typing `Device Manager`
1. Expand `Ports (COM & LPT)`
1. Look for a node similar to `USB Serial Device (COM4)`
1. Take note of the port number, it will be needed during configuration

![Device Manager](../../images/devicemanager.png)

## Installing

1. Download and install Node.js 16 LTS from [their website](https://nodejs.org/en/)
1. Open up a `Command prompt` or `Powershell` from the Start menu (Powershell has prettier colors)
1. Verify Node.js was successfully installed
    ```bash
    node --version
    ```
1. Choose a suitable directory for Zigbee2MQTT and copy all the files from the [Zigbee2MQTT repository](https://github.com/koenkk/zigbee2mqtt)
    * if you prefer to use git (which you should), just clone the whole repository
        ```bash
        git clone --depth 1 git@github.com:Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.git
        ```
    * otherwise use the green `Clone or download` button to download the zip archive, then extract it
1. Change to the newly created directory and install dependencies with Node.js own package manager `npm`
    ```bash
    npm ci
    ```

## Configuring

1. Open `data\configuration.yaml` in a text editor
1. Change the serial port configuration to match your setup
    ```yaml
    serial:
        port: \\.\COM4
    ```
1. Make sure other settings are correct as well
1. Save and exit

Congratulations, you're now ready to start your Zigbee2MQTT installation

## Starting Zigbee2MQTT

Just change to the root directory of your installation and run the application:
```bash
npm start
```

A successful setup produces an output similar to this:

```
> zigbee2mqtt@1.6.0 start C:\Users\me\Documents\GitHub\zigbee2mqtt
> node index.js

  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:22 PM Logging to directory: 'D:\Documents\GitHub\zigbee2mqtt\data\log\2019-10-18.22-56-22'
  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:22 PM Starting Zigbee2MQTT version 1.6.0 (commit #e26ad2a)
  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:22 PM Starting zigbee-shepherd
  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:24 PM zigbee-shepherd started
  Zigbee2MQTT:info 2019-10-18 10:56:24 PM Coordinator firmware version: '20190608'
```

The `Coordinator firmware version: '20190608'` entry means that Zigbee2MQTT has successfully communicated with the USB sniffer.

Zigbee2MQTT can be stopped anytime by pressing `CTRL + C` and then confirming with `Y`.
