docs/devices/064882.md, before:

---
title: "Legrand 064882 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Legrand 064882 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-01-31T17:42:44
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Legrand 064882

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 064882  |
| Vendor  | [Legrand](/supported-devices/#v=Legrand)  |
| Description | Cable outlet with pilot wire and consumption measurement |
| Exposes | device_mode, cable_outlet_mode, switch (state, state), power, power_apparent, power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Legrand 064882](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/064882.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Device mode (binary)
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"device_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"device_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `pilot_on` device mode is ON, if `pilot_off` OFF.

### Cable outlet mode (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `cable_outlet_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"cable_outlet_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"cable_outlet_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `comfort`, `comfort-1`, `comfort-2`, `eco`, `frost_protection`, `off`.

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Power apparent (numeric)
Instantaneous measured apparent power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_apparent` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `VA`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on. Works only when the pilot wire is
                deactivated.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add LEGRAND 064882 pairing process description and some troobleshoot (#2284)
* Add pairing process desciption and some troobleshoot

* Update 064882.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/064882.md, after:

---
title: "Legrand 064882 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Legrand 064882 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-01-31T17:42:44
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Legrand 064882

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 064882  |
| Vendor  | [Legrand](/supported-devices/#v=Legrand)  |
| Description | Cable outlet with pilot wire and consumption measurement |
| Exposes | device_mode, cable_outlet_mode, switch (state, state), power, power_apparent, power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Legrand 064882](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/064882.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

## Pairing process
Step 1 - Reset the device, press the reset button for 8 seconds (it's the hole on the device). The light will be static red when the reset is complete.
Step 2 - Allow join on your coordinator and simple press (not a long press) the reset button. The light blinks green in pairing mode.
Troobleshooting: The Legrand bridge shall be power off if you have one. If it is on, the interview will complete with zigbee2MQTT, but the device won't communicate after that.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Device mode (binary)
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"device_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"device_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `pilot_on` device mode is ON, if `pilot_off` OFF.

### Cable outlet mode (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `cable_outlet_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"cable_outlet_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"cable_outlet_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `comfort`, `comfort-1`, `comfort-2`, `eco`, `frost_protection`, `off`.

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Power apparent (numeric)
Instantaneous measured apparent power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_apparent` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `VA`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on. Works only when the pilot wire is
                deactivated.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
