docs/devices/1402769.md, before:

---
title: "Namron 1402769 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Namron 1402769 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-06-01T08:16:21
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Namron 1402769

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 1402769  |
| Vendor  | [Namron](/supported-devices/#v=Namron)  |
| Description | ZigBee LED dimmer |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness), effect, power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Namron 1402769](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/1402769.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the light will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the light firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss. If you get an `UNSUPPORTED_ATTRIBUTE` error, the device does not support it..
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add pairing and start level instructions to Namron 1402755

docs/devices/1402769.md, after:

---
title: "Namron 1402769 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Namron 1402769 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-06-01T08:16:21
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Namron 1402769

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 1402769  |
| Vendor  | [Namron](/supported-devices/#v=Namron)  |
| Description | ZigBee LED dimmer |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness), effect, power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Namron 1402769](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/1402769.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Pairing
1. Remove the device from previous zigbee network if it has already been added to (see **Factory Reset**), otherwise pairing will fail.
2. Double Press the reset button to activate the network paring mode (The blue indicator light will be flashing), network pairing mode will last for 15 minutes once timeout repeat this step.
3. The blue indicator will stop flashing and will stay on for 10s once paired.

### Factory Reset
1. Press and hold reset button for more than 5 seconds.
2. The indicator light will be red to indicate a successful reset.

### Set desired start level
1. Short press the dimmer wheel 4 times and long press on the 5th time. The connected load will flash twice to indicate that the dimmer has entered setting mode.
2. Adjust your desired start level.
3. To save the wanted setting, press and hold the dimmer wheel. The load will flash once to indicate that the setting is saved.

### Factory reset the start level
1. Short press dimmer wheel 5 times and long press on 6th time. 
2. Connected load will flash one time to indicate that it has been set to factory setting. 
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the light will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the light firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss. If you get an `UNSUPPORTED_ATTRIBUTE` error, the device does not support it..
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
