docs/devices/3400-D.md, before:

---
title: "Centralite 3400-D control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Centralite 3400-D via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-01T19:56:51Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Centralite 3400-D

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 3400-D  |
| Vendor  | [Centralite](/supported-devices/#v=Centralite)  |
| Description | 3-Series security keypad |
| Exposes | battery, temperature, occupancy, action_code, action_transaction, action_zone, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Centralite 3400-D](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/3400-D.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
Remove batteries, click on the tamper protection button (under the wallmount part and above the sticker) 5-10 times, hold the tamper button and put in the batteries and release the button after 1-2 seconds and pairing process starts.

### Arming/Disarming from the server
To set arming mode publish the following payload to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` topic:

```js
{
    "arm_mode": {
        "mode": "arm_all_zones"
    }
}
```
Valid `mode` values as per ZCL specifications are `disarm`, `arm_day_zones`, `arm_night_zones`, `arm_all_zones`, `exit_delay`, `entry_delay`, `not_ready`, `in_alarm`, `arming_stay`, `arming_night`, `arming_away`.
### Arming/Disarming from the keypad
When an attempt to set arm mode is done on the keypad, Zigbee2MQTT will publish the following payload to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME`:

```js
{
    "action": "arm_all_zones", // This is the example
    "action_code": "123", // The code being entered
    "action_zone": 0, // The zone being armed (always 0)
    "action_transaction": 99 // The transaction number
}
```

The automation server must validate the request and send a notification to the keypad, confirming or denying the request.

Do so by sending the following payload to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`:

```js
{
    "arm_mode": {
        "transaction": 99, // Transaction number (this must be the same as the keypad request `action_transaction`)
        "mode": "arm_all_zones" // Mode (this must be the same as the keypad request `action`)
    }
}
```
Valid `mode` values are `disarm`, `arm_day_zones`, `arm_night_zones`, `arm_all_zones`, `invalid_code`, `not_ready`, `already_disarmed`

The automation server must follow the notification with an actual change to the correct arm mode. For the example above, the server should respond with `exit_delay`, count the elapsed time (e.g 30 secs), then change mode again to `arm_all_zones` (see "Arming/Disarming from the server" section above)
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `occupancy_timeout`: Time in seconds after which occupancy is cleared after detecting it (default 90 seconds). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Occupancy (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected occupancy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `occupancy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` occupancy is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Action_code (numeric)
Pin code introduced..
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_code` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Action_transaction (numeric)
Last action transaction number..
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_transaction` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Action_zone (text)
Alarm zone. Default value 0.
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_zone` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `disarm`, `arm_day_zones`, `arm_night_zones`, `arm_all_zones`, `exit_delay`, `emergency`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update 3400-D.md (#2085)
Option 1 did not work for me, but Option 2.

docs/devices/3400-D.md, after:

---
title: "Centralite 3400-D control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Centralite 3400-D via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-01T19:56:51Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Centralite 3400-D

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 3400-D  |
| Vendor  | [Centralite](/supported-devices/#v=Centralite)  |
| Description | 3-Series security keypad |
| Exposes | battery, temperature, occupancy, action_code, action_transaction, action_zone, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Centralite 3400-D](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/3400-D.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
Option 1: Remove batteries, click on the tamper protection button (under the wallmount part and above the sticker) 5-10 times, hold the tamper button and put in the batteries and release the button after 1-2 seconds and pairing process starts.

Option 2: Remove batteries (both!). Press the tamper button on the back and keep pressing it. Insert one (!) battery.
After keypad is lit up, immediately (!) release the tamper button (doesn't seem to work if it is pressed for a few seconds)

### Arming/Disarming from the server
To set arming mode publish the following payload to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` topic:

```js
{
    "arm_mode": {
        "mode": "arm_all_zones"
    }
}
```
Valid `mode` values as per ZCL specifications are `disarm`, `arm_day_zones`, `arm_night_zones`, `arm_all_zones`, `exit_delay`, `entry_delay`, `not_ready`, `in_alarm`, `arming_stay`, `arming_night`, `arming_away`.
### Arming/Disarming from the keypad
When an attempt to set arm mode is done on the keypad, Zigbee2MQTT will publish the following payload to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME`:

```js
{
    "action": "arm_all_zones", // This is the example
    "action_code": "123", // The code being entered
    "action_zone": 0, // The zone being armed (always 0)
    "action_transaction": 99 // The transaction number
}
```

The automation server must validate the request and send a notification to the keypad, confirming or denying the request.

Do so by sending the following payload to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`:

```js
{
    "arm_mode": {
        "transaction": 99, // Transaction number (this must be the same as the keypad request `action_transaction`)
        "mode": "arm_all_zones" // Mode (this must be the same as the keypad request `action`)
    }
}
```
Valid `mode` values are `disarm`, `arm_day_zones`, `arm_night_zones`, `arm_all_zones`, `invalid_code`, `not_ready`, `already_disarmed`

The automation server must follow the notification with an actual change to the correct arm mode. For the example above, the server should respond with `exit_delay`, count the elapsed time (e.g 30 secs), then change mode again to `arm_all_zones` (see "Arming/Disarming from the server" section above)
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `occupancy_timeout`: Time in seconds after which occupancy is cleared after detecting it (default 90 seconds). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Occupancy (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected occupancy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `occupancy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` occupancy is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Action_code (numeric)
Pin code introduced..
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_code` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Action_transaction (numeric)
Last action transaction number..
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_transaction` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Action_zone (text)
Alarm zone. Default value 0.
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_zone` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `disarm`, `arm_day_zones`, `arm_night_zones`, `arm_all_zones`, `exit_delay`, `emergency`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
