docs/devices/404049D.md, before:

---
title: "Müller Licht 404049D control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Müller Licht 404049D via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-08-26T06:45:18
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Müller Licht 404049D

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 404049D  |
| Vendor  | [Müller Licht](/supported-devices/#v=M%C3%BCller%20Licht)  |
| Description | Tint dim remote control |
| Exposes | action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Müller Licht 404049D](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/404049D.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_step_up`, `brightness_step_down`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_stop`, `color_temperature_move`, `color_move`, `scene_1`, `scene_2`, `scene_3`, `scene_4`, `scene_5`, `scene_6`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update 404049D.md (#2655)
- Added information about groups
- Added long press scene
- Added pairing

docs/devices/404049D.md, after:

---
title: "Müller Licht 404049D control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Müller Licht 404049D via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-08-26T06:45:18
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Müller Licht 404049D

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 404049D  |
| Vendor  | [Müller Licht](/supported-devices/#v=M%C3%BCller%20Licht)  |
| Description | Tint dim remote control |
| Exposes | action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Müller Licht 404049D](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/404049D.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
Remove the battery cover and use the cover to press the button above the batteries.
Press and hold this button for 10-20 seconds and release the button.
After that the remote should show up as a paired device.

### Groups binding

This remote is able to deal with 4 ZigBee groups:

* group0 = All three leds lit
* group1 = first led lit
* group2 = second led lit
* group3 = third let lit

The device is bound to the default tint action groups (group0-3) with ids 16387/16388/16389/16390. This cannot be changed.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_step_up`, `brightness_step_down`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_stop`, `color_temperature_move`, `color_move`, `scene_1`, `scene_2`, `scene_3`, `scene_4`, `scene_5`, `scene_6`. 

Long press scene buttons: `scene_7`, `scene_8`, `scene_9`, `scene_10` .

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
