docs/devices/43100.md, before:

---
title: "Enbrighten 43100 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Enbrighten 43100 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-01T19:56:51Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Enbrighten 43100

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 43100  |
| Vendor  | [Enbrighten](/supported-devices/#v=Enbrighten)  |
| Description | Plug-in Zigbee outdoor smart switch |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Enbrighten 43100](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/43100.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Reset smart switch 

1. Unplug the smart switch from the outlet
2. Hold down the push button.
3. Plug the smart switch back into the outlet while holding down the push button.
4. Release button after the smart switch is plugged in.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Updating reset instructions with timing (#1724)
Source : https://byjasco.com/mwdownloads/download/link/id/1858
> Note: If the button is held down more than 4 seconds after being plugged in, the smart switch will NOT reset and will remain with the current network.

docs/devices/43100.md, after:

---
title: "Enbrighten 43100 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Enbrighten 43100 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-01T19:56:51Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Enbrighten 43100

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 43100  |
| Vendor  | [Enbrighten](/supported-devices/#v=Enbrighten)  |
| Description | Plug-in Zigbee outdoor smart switch |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Enbrighten 43100](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/43100.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Reset smart switch 

1. Unplug the smart switch from the outlet
2. Hold down the push button.
3. Plug the smart switch back into the outlet while holding down the push button.
4. Release button after the smart switch is plugged in. You must release button within four seconds of
plugging in the switch. 
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
