docs/devices/4512702.md, before:

---
title: "Namron 4512702 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Namron 4512702 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-03-16T20:23:37Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Namron 4512702

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 4512702  |
| Vendor  | [Namron](/supported-devices/#v=Namron)  |
| Description | Zigbee 1 channel switch K4 |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Namron 4512702](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/4512702.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_stop`, `brightness_step_up`, `brightness_step_down`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Added Pairing and Factory Reset instructions

docs/devices/4512702.md, after:

---
title: "Namron 4512702 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Namron 4512702 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-03-16T20:23:37Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Namron 4512702

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 4512702  |
| Vendor  | [Namron](/supported-devices/#v=Namron)  |
| Description | Zigbee 1 channel switch K4 |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Namron 4512702](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/4512702.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Pairing
1. Remove the remote from previous zigbee network if it has already been added to it, otherwise pairing will fail. Please refer to the part "Factory Reset".
2. From your zigbee controller or hub interface, choose to add device or accessory and enter Pairing mode as instructed by the controller.
3. Press and hold down top two buttons (channel 1 ON and OFF) until LED indicator turns on.
4. Immediately short press to search nearby network, indicator flashes every 1 second, 20 seconds timeout if there is no network. Indicator will then blink 5 times quickly for successful pairing.

### Factory Reset 
1. Press and hold down top two buttons (channel 1 ON and OFF) until LED indicator turns on
2. Immediately short press 5 times continuously, indicator flashes 3 times quickly to indicate successful reset.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_stop`, `brightness_step_up`, `brightness_step_down`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
