docs/devices/4523430.md, before:

---
title: "ELKO 4523430 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your ELKO 4523430 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-09-01T18:11:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# ELKO 4523430

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 4523430  |
| Vendor  | [ELKO](/supported-devices/#v=ELKO)  |
| Description | ESH Plus Super TR RF PH |
| Exposes | display_text, load, regulator_mode, regulator_time, climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, local_temperature_calibration, system_mode, running_state), sensor, floor_temp, max_floor_temp, mean_power, child_lock, frost_guard, night_switching, linkquality |
| Picture | ![ELKO 4523430](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/4523430.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
* Press "arrow up" and "M" simultaneously until "joining" and "pairing" is shown on the ELKO Super TR RF display.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`


## Exposes

### Display text (text)
Displayed text on thermostat display (zone). Max 14 characters.
Value can be found in the published state on the `display_text` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"display_text": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"display_text": NEW_VALUE}`.

### Load (numeric)
Load in W when heating is on (between 0-2000 W). The thermostat uses the value as input to the mean_power calculation..
Value can be found in the published state on the `load` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"load": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"load": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `2000`.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Regulator mode (binary)
Device in regulator or thermostat mode..
Value can be found in the published state on the `regulator_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"regulator_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"regulator_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `regulator` regulator mode is ON, if `thermostat` OFF.

### Regulator time (numeric)
When device is in regulator mode this controls the time between each in/out connection. When device is in thermostat mode this controls the  time between each in/out switch when measured temperature is within +-0.5 °C set temperature. Choose a long time for (slow) concrete floors and a short time for (quick) wooden floors..
Value can be found in the published state on the `regulator_time` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"regulator_time": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"regulator_time": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `20`.
The unit of this value is `min`.

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `system_mode`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `50`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to be used in the local_temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`The minimal value is `-12.8` and the maximum value is `12.7` with a step size of `0.1`.

### Sensor (enum)
Select temperature sensor to use.
Value can be found in the published state on the `sensor` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"sensor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `air`, `floor`, `supervisor_floor`.

### Floor temp (numeric)
Current temperature measured from the floor sensor.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_temp` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_temp": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Max floor temp (numeric)
Set max floor temperature (between 20-35 °C) when "supervisor_floor" is set.
Value can be found in the published state on the `max_floor_temp` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"max_floor_temp": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"max_floor_temp": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `20` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Mean power (numeric)
Reports average power usage last 10 minutes.
Value can be found in the published state on the `mean_power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"mean_power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Child lock (binary)
Enables/disables physical input on the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `lock` child lock is ON, if `unlock` OFF.

### Frost guard (binary)
When frost guard is ON, it is activated when the thermostat is switched OFF with the ON/OFF button.At the same time, the display will fade and the text "Frostsikring x °C" appears in the display and remains until the thermostat is switched on again..
Value can be found in the published state on the `frost_guard` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"frost_guard": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"frost_guard": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `on` frost guard is ON, if `off` OFF.

### Night switching (binary)
Turn on or off night setting..
Value can be found in the published state on the `night_switching` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"night_switching": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"night_switching": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `on` night switching is ON, if `off` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update 4523430.md (#2314)
Notes: This device does not seem to support Zigbee channels higher than channel 15. If your network uses a higher Zigbee channel, you might not be able to join this device to the network.

docs/devices/4523430.md, after:

---
title: "ELKO 4523430 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your ELKO 4523430 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-09-01T18:11:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# ELKO 4523430

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 4523430  |
| Vendor  | [ELKO](/supported-devices/#v=ELKO)  |
| Description | ESH Plus Super TR RF PH |
| Exposes | display_text, load, regulator_mode, regulator_time, climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, local_temperature_calibration, system_mode, running_state), sensor, floor_temp, max_floor_temp, mean_power, child_lock, frost_guard, night_switching, linkquality |
| Picture | ![ELKO 4523430](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/4523430.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
This device does not seem to support Zigbee channels higher than channel 15. If your network uses a higher Zigbee channel, you might not be able to join this device to the network.

### Pairing
* Press "arrow up" and "M" simultaneously until "joining" and "pairing" is shown on the ELKO Super TR RF display.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`


## Exposes

### Display text (text)
Displayed text on thermostat display (zone). Max 14 characters.
Value can be found in the published state on the `display_text` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"display_text": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"display_text": NEW_VALUE}`.

### Load (numeric)
Load in W when heating is on (between 0-2000 W). The thermostat uses the value as input to the mean_power calculation..
Value can be found in the published state on the `load` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"load": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"load": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `2000`.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Regulator mode (binary)
Device in regulator or thermostat mode..
Value can be found in the published state on the `regulator_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"regulator_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"regulator_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `regulator` regulator mode is ON, if `thermostat` OFF.

### Regulator time (numeric)
When device is in regulator mode this controls the time between each in/out connection. When device is in thermostat mode this controls the  time between each in/out switch when measured temperature is within +-0.5 °C set temperature. Choose a long time for (slow) concrete floors and a short time for (quick) wooden floors..
Value can be found in the published state on the `regulator_time` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"regulator_time": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"regulator_time": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `20`.
The unit of this value is `min`.

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `system_mode`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `50`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to be used in the local_temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`The minimal value is `-12.8` and the maximum value is `12.7` with a step size of `0.1`.

### Sensor (enum)
Select temperature sensor to use.
Value can be found in the published state on the `sensor` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"sensor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `air`, `floor`, `supervisor_floor`.

### Floor temp (numeric)
Current temperature measured from the floor sensor.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_temp` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_temp": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Max floor temp (numeric)
Set max floor temperature (between 20-35 °C) when "supervisor_floor" is set.
Value can be found in the published state on the `max_floor_temp` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"max_floor_temp": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"max_floor_temp": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `20` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Mean power (numeric)
Reports average power usage last 10 minutes.
Value can be found in the published state on the `mean_power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"mean_power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Child lock (binary)
Enables/disables physical input on the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `lock` child lock is ON, if `unlock` OFF.

### Frost guard (binary)
When frost guard is ON, it is activated when the thermostat is switched OFF with the ON/OFF button.At the same time, the display will fade and the text "Frostsikring x °C" appears in the display and remains until the thermostat is switched on again..
Value can be found in the published state on the `frost_guard` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"frost_guard": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"frost_guard": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `on` frost guard is ON, if `off` OFF.

### Night switching (binary)
Turn on or off night setting..
Value can be found in the published state on the `night_switching` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"night_switching": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"night_switching": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `on` night switching is ON, if `off` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
