docs/devices/550D6001.md, before:

---
title: "Schneider Electric 550D6001 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Schneider Electric 550D6001 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-07-01T18:17:29Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Schneider Electric 550D6001

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 550D6001  |
| Vendor  | Schneider Electric  |
| Description | LK FUGA wiser wireless battery 4 button switch |
| Exposes | action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Schneider Electric 550D6001](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/550D6001.jpg) |
| White-label | Elko EKO07117 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Pairing
* Short press (< 0.5 seconds) the upper left button three times.

### Resetting
* Short press (< 0.5 seconds) the upper left button three times and hold for 10
  seconds, until the LED blinks red. After releasing the LED will stop blinking
  once the device is reset.

### Battery
The battery used is a standard CR2032. The battery can be replaced by pulling
off the button keys along with the horizontal bar in the middle of the switch.

### ELKO Smart
This device is also used by the EKO07117 SmartSwitch Push Wireless in the ELKO
Smart range (ELKO is a subsidiary of Schneider Electric).

### Troubleshooting

#### LED blinking green and red
Device is unable to communicate with gateway. Press the reset button quickly
three times, then hold for 20 seconds, until the LED blinks red. After this the
device will reboot and should be ready for pairing.

### Additional resources

* [Wiser system user guide](https://www.productinfo.schneider-electric.com/wiser_dk/wiser_system_user_guide/English/Wiser%20System%20User%20Guide%20-%20Tuya%20EU%20LK%20(BOOKMAP)_0000482918.xml)
* [LK FUGA® Wiser wireless battery 4 button switch manual](https://www1.lk.dk/katalog/vejledning/GDE7031801-04.pdf)
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on_top`, `off_top`, `on_bottom`, `off_bottom`, `brightness_move_up_top`, `brightness_stop_top`, `brightness_move_down_top`, `brightness_stop_top`, `brightness_move_up_bottom`, `brightness_stop_bottom`, `brightness_move_down_bottom`, `brightness_stop_bottom`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Document how to put 550D6001 into 2-channel mode

docs/devices/550D6001.md, after:

---
title: "Schneider Electric 550D6001 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Schneider Electric 550D6001 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-07-01T18:17:29Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Schneider Electric 550D6001

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 550D6001  |
| Vendor  | Schneider Electric  |
| Description | LK FUGA wiser wireless battery 4 button switch |
| Exposes | action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Schneider Electric 550D6001](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/550D6001.jpg) |
| White-label | Elko EKO07117 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Pairing
* Short press (< 0.5 seconds) the upper left button three times.

### Resetting
* Short press (< 0.5 seconds) the upper left button three times and hold for 10
  seconds, until the LED blinks red. After releasing the LED will stop blinking
  once the device is reset.

### 1-channel vs 2-channel mode
Depending on the firmware version the device may support both 1-channel and 2-channel mode. In 1-channel mode both the upper and lower buttons
works as the upper buttons. On some firmware versions (incl. those sold as Elko EKO07117) the device starts out in 1-channel mode and must be
switched into 2-channel mode either by using the Elko / Wiser gateway or by holding down button 1 and 4 (upper left and lower right) for approx.
10 seconds - the led will flash red and the become green once successfull.

### Battery
The battery used is a standard CR2032. The battery can be replaced by pulling
off the button keys along with the horizontal bar in the middle of the switch.

### ELKO Smart
This device is also used by the EKO07117 SmartSwitch Push Wireless in the ELKO
Smart range (ELKO is a subsidiary of Schneider Electric).

### Troubleshooting

#### LED blinking green and red
Device is unable to communicate with gateway. Press the reset button quickly
three times, then hold for 20 seconds, until the LED blinks red. After this the
device will reboot and should be ready for pairing.

#### All buttons generates *_top actions
See the 1-channel vs 2-channel mode section above.

### Additional resources

* [Wiser system user guide](https://www.productinfo.schneider-electric.com/wiser_dk/wiser_system_user_guide/English/Wiser%20System%20User%20Guide%20-%20Tuya%20EU%20LK%20(BOOKMAP)_0000482918.xml)
* [LK FUGA® Wiser wireless battery 4 button switch manual](https://www1.lk.dk/katalog/vejledning/GDE7031801-04.pdf)
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on_top`, `off_top`, `on_bottom`, `off_bottom`, `brightness_move_up_top`, `brightness_stop_top`, `brightness_move_down_top`, `brightness_stop_top`, `brightness_move_up_bottom`, `brightness_stop_bottom`, `brightness_move_down_bottom`, `brightness_stop_bottom`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
