docs/devices/66492-001.md, before:

---
title: "Kwikset 66492-001 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Kwikset 66492-001 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-03-09T19:04:35Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Kwikset 66492-001

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 66492-001  |
| Vendor  | [Kwikset](/supported-devices/#v=Kwikset)  |
| Description | Home connect smart lock conversion kit |
| Exposes | lock (state, lock_state), battery, action, action_source_name, action_user, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Kwikset 66492-001](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/66492-001.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->




## Exposes

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "LOCK"}` or `{"state": "UNLOCK"}`.
To read the current state of this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
This lock exposes a lock state which can be found in the published state under the `lock_state` property. It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value. The possible values are: `not_fully_locked`, `locked`, `unlocked`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action on the lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `unknown`, `lock`, `unlock`, `lock_failure_invalid_pin_or_id`, `lock_failure_invalid_schedule`, `unlock_failure_invalid_pin_or_id`, `unlock_failure_invalid_schedule`, `one_touch_lock`, `key_lock`, `key_unlock`, `auto_lock`, `schedule_lock`, `schedule_unlock`, `manual_lock`, `manual_unlock`, `non_access_user_operational_event`.

### Action_source_name (enum)
Source of the triggered action on the lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_source_name` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `keypad`, `rfid`, `manual`, `rf`.

### Action_user (numeric)
ID of user that triggered the action on the lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_user` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Added pairing instructions for Kwikset 66492-001 (#2071)
* Kwikset 66492-001 pairing image

 Kwikset 66492-001 pairing image

* Updated pairing image for Kwikset 66492-001

Updated pairing image for Kwikset 66492-001

* Update 66492-001.md

Added picture and notes on pairing/factory reset device.

docs/devices/66492-001.md, after:

---
title: "Kwikset 66492-001 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Kwikset 66492-001 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-03-09T19:04:35Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Kwikset 66492-001

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 66492-001  |
| Vendor  | [Kwikset](/supported-devices/#v=Kwikset)  |
| Description | Home connect smart lock conversion kit |
| Exposes | lock (state, lock_state), battery, action, action_source_name, action_user, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Kwikset 66492-001](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/66492-001.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
<img src="../images/pairing/66492-001_pairing.jpg" width=30% height=30%>

* Pair the lock by pressing the "A" button 4 times.
* Unpair the lock by pressing the "B" button 9 times.

### Factory Reset
1. Factory reset the lock by removing the battery pack. 
2. Press and HOLD the "Program" button while reinserting the battery pack. 
3. Release button shortly after battery pack is installed. The status LED will flash red and green. 
4. Press the "Program" button once more. The latch bolt will extend and retract to learn the orientation of the door. The status LED will flash green for sucess or solid red for 5 seconds to indicate failure.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->




## Exposes

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "LOCK"}` or `{"state": "UNLOCK"}`.
To read the current state of this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
This lock exposes a lock state which can be found in the published state under the `lock_state` property. It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value. The possible values are: `not_fully_locked`, `locked`, `unlocked`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action on the lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `unknown`, `lock`, `unlock`, `lock_failure_invalid_pin_or_id`, `lock_failure_invalid_schedule`, `unlock_failure_invalid_pin_or_id`, `unlock_failure_invalid_schedule`, `one_touch_lock`, `key_lock`, `key_unlock`, `auto_lock`, `schedule_lock`, `schedule_unlock`, `manual_lock`, `manual_unlock`, `non_access_user_operational_event`.

### Action_source_name (enum)
Source of the triggered action on the lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_source_name` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `keypad`, `rfid`, `manual`, `rf`.

### Action_user (numeric)
ID of user that triggered the action on the lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `action_user` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
