docs/devices/701721.md, before:

---
title: "Popp 701721 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Popp 701721 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-10-01T17:18:02Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Popp 701721

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 701721  |
| Vendor  | [Popp](/supported-devices/#v=Popp)  |
| Description | Smart thermostat based on Danfoss Ally (014G2461) |
| Exposes | battery, keypad_lockout, programming_operation_mode, mounted_mode_active, mounted_mode_control, thermostat_vertical_orientation, viewing_direction, heat_available, heat_required, setpoint_change_source, climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, pi_heating_demand, system_mode, running_state), occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled, external_measured_room_sensor, radiator_covered, window_open_feature, window_open_internal, window_open_external, day_of_week, trigger_time, algorithm_scale_factor, load_balancing_enable, load_room_mean, load_estimate, preheat_status, adaptation_run_status, adaptation_run_settings, adaptation_run_control, regulation_setpoint_offset, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Popp 701721](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/701721.jpg) |
| White-label | Danfoss 014G2463 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Keypad_lockout (enum)
Enables/disables physical input on the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keypad_lockout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unlock`, `lock1`, `lock2`.

### Programming_operation_mode (enum)
Controls how programming affects the thermostat. Possible values: setpoint (only use specified setpoint), schedule (follow programmed setpoint schedule). Changing this value does not clear programmed schedules..
Value can be found in the published state on the `programming_operation_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"programming_operation_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"programming_operation_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `setpoint`, `schedule`, `eco`.

### Mounted_mode_active (binary)
Is the unit in mounting mode. This is set to `false` for mounted (already on the radiator) or `true` for not mounted (after factory reset).
Value can be found in the published state on the `mounted_mode_active` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"mounted_mode_active": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` mounted_mode_active is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Mounted_mode_control (binary)
Set the unit mounting mode. `false` Go to Mounted Mode or `true` Go to Mounting Mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `mounted_mode_control` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"mounted_mode_control": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"mounted_mode_control": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` mounted_mode_control is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Thermostat_vertical_orientation (binary)
Thermostat Orientation. This is important for the PID in how it assesses temperature. `false` Horizontal or `true` Vertical.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_vertical_orientation` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_vertical_orientation": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_vertical_orientation": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` thermostat_vertical_orientation is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Viewing_direction (binary)
Viewing/display direction, `false` normal or `true` upside-down.
Value can be found in the published state on the `viewing_direction` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"viewing_direction": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"viewing_direction": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` viewing_direction is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Heat_available (binary)
Not clear how this affects operation. However, it would appear that the device does not execute any motor functions if this is set to false. This may be a means to conserve battery during periods that the heating system is not energized (e.g. during summer). `false` No Heat Available or `true` Heat Available.
Value can be found in the published state on the `heat_available` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"heat_available": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"heat_available": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` heat_available is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Heat_required (binary)
Whether or not the unit needs warm water. `false` No Heat Request or `true` Heat Request.
Value can be found in the published state on the `heat_required` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"heat_required": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` heat_required is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Setpoint_change_source (enum)
Values observed are `0` (manual), `1` (schedule) or `2` (externally).
Value can be found in the published state on the `setpoint_change_source` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `manual`, `schedule`, `externally`.

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `pi_heating_demand`, `system_mode`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `35`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `pi_heating_demand`: Position of the valve (= demanded heat) where 0% is fully closed and 100% is fully open. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the % between `0` and `100`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.

### Occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled (numeric)
Scheduled change of the setpoint. Alternative method for changing the setpoint. In the opposite to occupied_heating_setpoint it does not trigger an aggressive response from the actuator. (more suitable for scheduled changes).
Value can be found in the published state on the `occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### External_measured_room_sensor (numeric)
If `radiator_covered` is `true`: Set at maximum 30 minutes interval but not more often than every 5 minutes and 0.1 degrees difference. Resets every 35 minutes to standard. If `radiator_covered` is `false`: Set at maximum 3 hours interval but not more often than every 30 minutes and 0.1 degrees difference. Resets every 3 hours to standard. Value 21C = 2100 (-8000=undefined)..
Value can be found in the published state on the `external_measured_room_sensor` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"external_measured_room_sensor": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"external_measured_room_sensor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-8000` and the maximum value is `3500`.

### Radiator_covered (binary)
Set if the TRV should solely rely on external_measured_room_sensor or operate in offset mode. `false` = Auto Offset Mode or `true` = Room Sensor Mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `radiator_covered` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"radiator_covered": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"radiator_covered": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` radiator_covered is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Window_open_feature (binary)
Whether or not the window open feature is enabled.
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_open_feature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_open_feature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_open_feature": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` window_open_feature is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Window_open_internal (numeric)
0=Quarantine, 1=Windows are closed, 2=Hold - Windows are maybe about to open, 3=Open window detected, 4=In window open state from external but detected closed locally.
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_open_internal` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_open_internal": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `4`.

### Window_open_external (binary)
Set if the window is open or close. This setting will trigger a change in the internal window and heating demand. `false` (windows are closed) or `true` (windows are open).
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_open_external` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_open_external": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_open_external": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` window_open_external is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Day_of_week (enum)
Exercise day of week: 0=Sun...6=Sat, 7=undefined.
Value can be found in the published state on the `day_of_week` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"day_of_week": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"day_of_week": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `sunday`, `monday`, `tuesday`, `wednesday`, `thursday`, `friday`, `saturday`, `away_or_vacation`.

### Trigger_time (numeric)
Exercise trigger time. Minutes since midnight (65535=undefined). Range 0 to 1439.
Value can be found in the published state on the `trigger_time` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"trigger_time": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"trigger_time": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `65535`.

### Algorithm_scale_factor (numeric)
Scale factor of setpoint filter timeconstant ("aggressiveness" of control algorithm) 1= Quick ...  5=Moderate ... 10=Slow.
Value can be found in the published state on the `algorithm_scale_factor` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"algorithm_scale_factor": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"algorithm_scale_factor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `1` and the maximum value is `10`.

### Load_balancing_enable (binary)
Whether or not the thermostat acts as standalone thermostat or shares load with other thermostats in the room. The gateway must update load_room_mean if enabled..
Value can be found in the published state on the `load_balancing_enable` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"load_balancing_enable": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"load_balancing_enable": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` load_balancing_enable is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Load_room_mean (numeric)
Mean radiator load for room calculated by gateway for load balancing purposes (-8000=undefined).
Value can be found in the published state on the `load_room_mean` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"load_room_mean": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"load_room_mean": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-8000` and the maximum value is `2000`.

### Load_estimate (numeric)
Load estimate on this radiator.
Value can be found in the published state on the `load_estimate` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"load_estimate": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `-8000` and the maximum value is `3600`.

### Preheat_status (binary)
Specific for pre-heat running in Zigbee Weekly Schedule mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `preheat_status` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"preheat_status": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` preheat_status is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Adaptation_run_status (enum)
Status of adaptation run: None (before first run), In Progress, Valve Characteristic Found, Valve Characteristic Lost.
Value can be found in the published state on the `adaptation_run_status` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"adaptation_run_status": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `none`, `in_progress`, `found`, `lost`.

### Adaptation_run_settings (binary)
Automatic adaptation run enabled (the one during the night).
Value can be found in the published state on the `adaptation_run_settings` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"adaptation_run_settings": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"adaptation_run_settings": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` adaptation_run_settings is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Adaptation_run_control (enum)
Adaptation run control: Initiate Adaptation Run or Cancel Adaptation Run.
Value can be found in the published state on the `adaptation_run_control` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"adaptation_run_control": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"adaptation_run_control": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `none`, `initiate_adaptation`, `cancel_adaptation`.

### Regulation_setpoint_offset (numeric)
Regulation SetPoint Offset in range -2.5°C to 2.5°C in steps of 0.1°C. Value 2.5°C = 25..
Value can be found in the published state on the `regulation_setpoint_offset` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"regulation_setpoint_offset": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"regulation_setpoint_offset": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-25` and the maximum value is `25`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

PoPP 701721 thermostat: add note reg. feature availability depending on firmware version (#1762)
* add note reg. feature availability depending on firmware version

This is based on my personal experience with two devices, one with each of the firmware versions mentioned.

* Update 701721.md

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/701721.md, after:

---
title: "Popp 701721 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Popp 701721 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-10-01T17:18:02Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Popp 701721

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 701721  |
| Vendor  | [Popp](/supported-devices/#v=Popp)  |
| Description | Smart thermostat based on Danfoss Ally (014G2461) |
| Exposes | battery, keypad_lockout, programming_operation_mode, mounted_mode_active, mounted_mode_control, thermostat_vertical_orientation, viewing_direction, heat_available, heat_required, setpoint_change_source, climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, pi_heating_demand, system_mode, running_state), occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled, external_measured_room_sensor, radiator_covered, window_open_feature, window_open_internal, window_open_external, day_of_week, trigger_time, algorithm_scale_factor, load_balancing_enable, load_room_mean, load_estimate, preheat_status, adaptation_run_status, adaptation_run_settings, adaptation_run_control, regulation_setpoint_offset, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Popp 701721](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/701721.jpg) |
| White-label | Danfoss 014G2463 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Supported features
The features related to control by an external temperature sensor, i.e. `external_measured_room_sensor` and `radiator_covered`, do not work with the stock Popp firmware `01.12.0008 01.12`, dated `20220524`.

They do work with the Danfoss firmware `01.18.0008 01.18`, dated `20220121`, that can be installed onto the device via OTA. But that firmware is called "not released" by the Popp technical support.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Keypad_lockout (enum)
Enables/disables physical input on the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keypad_lockout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unlock`, `lock1`, `lock2`.

### Programming_operation_mode (enum)
Controls how programming affects the thermostat. Possible values: setpoint (only use specified setpoint), schedule (follow programmed setpoint schedule). Changing this value does not clear programmed schedules..
Value can be found in the published state on the `programming_operation_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"programming_operation_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"programming_operation_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `setpoint`, `schedule`, `eco`.

### Mounted_mode_active (binary)
Is the unit in mounting mode. This is set to `false` for mounted (already on the radiator) or `true` for not mounted (after factory reset).
Value can be found in the published state on the `mounted_mode_active` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"mounted_mode_active": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` mounted_mode_active is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Mounted_mode_control (binary)
Set the unit mounting mode. `false` Go to Mounted Mode or `true` Go to Mounting Mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `mounted_mode_control` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"mounted_mode_control": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"mounted_mode_control": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` mounted_mode_control is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Thermostat_vertical_orientation (binary)
Thermostat Orientation. This is important for the PID in how it assesses temperature. `false` Horizontal or `true` Vertical.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_vertical_orientation` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_vertical_orientation": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_vertical_orientation": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` thermostat_vertical_orientation is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Viewing_direction (binary)
Viewing/display direction, `false` normal or `true` upside-down.
Value can be found in the published state on the `viewing_direction` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"viewing_direction": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"viewing_direction": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` viewing_direction is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Heat_available (binary)
Not clear how this affects operation. However, it would appear that the device does not execute any motor functions if this is set to false. This may be a means to conserve battery during periods that the heating system is not energized (e.g. during summer). `false` No Heat Available or `true` Heat Available.
Value can be found in the published state on the `heat_available` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"heat_available": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"heat_available": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` heat_available is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Heat_required (binary)
Whether or not the unit needs warm water. `false` No Heat Request or `true` Heat Request.
Value can be found in the published state on the `heat_required` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"heat_required": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` heat_required is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Setpoint_change_source (enum)
Values observed are `0` (manual), `1` (schedule) or `2` (externally).
Value can be found in the published state on the `setpoint_change_source` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `manual`, `schedule`, `externally`.

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `pi_heating_demand`, `system_mode`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `35`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `pi_heating_demand`: Position of the valve (= demanded heat) where 0% is fully closed and 100% is fully open. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the % between `0` and `100`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.

### Occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled (numeric)
Scheduled change of the setpoint. Alternative method for changing the setpoint. In the opposite to occupied_heating_setpoint it does not trigger an aggressive response from the actuator. (more suitable for scheduled changes).
Value can be found in the published state on the `occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint_scheduled": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### External_measured_room_sensor (numeric)
If `radiator_covered` is `true`: Set at maximum 30 minutes interval but not more often than every 5 minutes and 0.1 degrees difference. Resets every 35 minutes to standard. If `radiator_covered` is `false`: Set at maximum 3 hours interval but not more often than every 30 minutes and 0.1 degrees difference. Resets every 3 hours to standard. Value 21C = 2100 (-8000=undefined)..
Value can be found in the published state on the `external_measured_room_sensor` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"external_measured_room_sensor": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"external_measured_room_sensor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-8000` and the maximum value is `3500`.

### Radiator_covered (binary)
Set if the TRV should solely rely on external_measured_room_sensor or operate in offset mode. `false` = Auto Offset Mode or `true` = Room Sensor Mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `radiator_covered` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"radiator_covered": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"radiator_covered": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` radiator_covered is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Window_open_feature (binary)
Whether or not the window open feature is enabled.
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_open_feature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_open_feature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_open_feature": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` window_open_feature is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Window_open_internal (numeric)
0=Quarantine, 1=Windows are closed, 2=Hold - Windows are maybe about to open, 3=Open window detected, 4=In window open state from external but detected closed locally.
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_open_internal` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_open_internal": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `4`.

### Window_open_external (binary)
Set if the window is open or close. This setting will trigger a change in the internal window and heating demand. `false` (windows are closed) or `true` (windows are open).
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_open_external` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_open_external": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_open_external": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` window_open_external is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Day_of_week (enum)
Exercise day of week: 0=Sun...6=Sat, 7=undefined.
Value can be found in the published state on the `day_of_week` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"day_of_week": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"day_of_week": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `sunday`, `monday`, `tuesday`, `wednesday`, `thursday`, `friday`, `saturday`, `away_or_vacation`.

### Trigger_time (numeric)
Exercise trigger time. Minutes since midnight (65535=undefined). Range 0 to 1439.
Value can be found in the published state on the `trigger_time` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"trigger_time": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"trigger_time": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `65535`.

### Algorithm_scale_factor (numeric)
Scale factor of setpoint filter timeconstant ("aggressiveness" of control algorithm) 1= Quick ...  5=Moderate ... 10=Slow.
Value can be found in the published state on the `algorithm_scale_factor` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"algorithm_scale_factor": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"algorithm_scale_factor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `1` and the maximum value is `10`.

### Load_balancing_enable (binary)
Whether or not the thermostat acts as standalone thermostat or shares load with other thermostats in the room. The gateway must update load_room_mean if enabled..
Value can be found in the published state on the `load_balancing_enable` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"load_balancing_enable": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"load_balancing_enable": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` load_balancing_enable is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Load_room_mean (numeric)
Mean radiator load for room calculated by gateway for load balancing purposes (-8000=undefined).
Value can be found in the published state on the `load_room_mean` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"load_room_mean": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"load_room_mean": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-8000` and the maximum value is `2000`.

### Load_estimate (numeric)
Load estimate on this radiator.
Value can be found in the published state on the `load_estimate` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"load_estimate": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `-8000` and the maximum value is `3600`.

### Preheat_status (binary)
Specific for pre-heat running in Zigbee Weekly Schedule mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `preheat_status` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"preheat_status": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` preheat_status is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Adaptation_run_status (enum)
Status of adaptation run: None (before first run), In Progress, Valve Characteristic Found, Valve Characteristic Lost.
Value can be found in the published state on the `adaptation_run_status` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"adaptation_run_status": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `none`, `in_progress`, `found`, `lost`.

### Adaptation_run_settings (binary)
Automatic adaptation run enabled (the one during the night).
Value can be found in the published state on the `adaptation_run_settings` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"adaptation_run_settings": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"adaptation_run_settings": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` adaptation_run_settings is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Adaptation_run_control (enum)
Adaptation run control: Initiate Adaptation Run or Cancel Adaptation Run.
Value can be found in the published state on the `adaptation_run_control` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"adaptation_run_control": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"adaptation_run_control": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `none`, `initiate_adaptation`, `cancel_adaptation`.

### Regulation_setpoint_offset (numeric)
Regulation SetPoint Offset in range -2.5°C to 2.5°C in steps of 0.1°C. Value 2.5°C = 25..
Value can be found in the published state on the `regulation_setpoint_offset` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"regulation_setpoint_offset": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"regulation_setpoint_offset": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-25` and the maximum value is `25`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
