docs/devices/8718699693985.md, before:

---
title: "Philips 8718699693985 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Philips 8718699693985 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-02-04T20:38:05Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Philips 8718699693985

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 8718699693985  |
| Vendor  | [Philips](/supported-devices/#v=Philips)  |
| Description | Hue smart button |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Philips 8718699693985](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/8718699693985.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `skip_backward`, `skip_forward`, `press`, `hold`, `release`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add pairing guide for Hue smart button

docs/devices/8718699693985.md, after:

---
title: "Philips 8718699693985 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Philips 8718699693985 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-02-04T20:38:05Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Philips 8718699693985

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 8718699693985  |
| Vendor  | [Philips](/supported-devices/#v=Philips)  |
| Description | Hue smart button |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Philips 8718699693985](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/8718699693985.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->
## Pairing
Factory reset the Hue smart button by just removing the protection behind, and short press the reset button (Important: Long press is not making the device in pairing mode). You will see led orange flashes indicating the pairing mode.

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `skip_backward`, `skip_forward`, `press`, `hold`, `release`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
