docs/devices/8719514440937_8719514440999.md, before:

---
title: "Philips 8719514440937/8719514440999 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Philips 8719514440937/8719514440999 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-08-31T11:26:27
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Philips 8719514440937/8719514440999

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 8719514440937/8719514440999  |
| Vendor  | [Philips](/supported-devices/#v=Philips)  |
| Description | Hue Tap dial switch |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Philips 8719514440937/8719514440999](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/8719514440937-8719514440999.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
The device can be set to pairing mode by removing the device's back cover. There is a small "setup" button next to the battery which must be pressed for a few seconds by using a paperclip or something similiar, which will bring the device into pairing mode.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).

## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `button_1_press`, `button_1_press_release`, `button_1_hold`, `button_1_hold_release`, `button_2_press`, `button_2_press_release`, `button_2_hold`, `button_2_hold_release`, `button_3_press`, `button_3_press_release`, `button_3_hold`, `button_3_hold_release`, `button_4_press`, `button_4_press_release`, `button_4_hold`, `button_4_hold_release`, `dial_rotate_left_step`, `dial_rotate_left_slow`, `dial_rotate_left_fast`, `dial_rotate_right_step`, `dial_rotate_right_slow`, `dial_rotate_right_fast`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update 8719514440937_8719514440999.md (#1899)
When pairing a brand new tap, the setup button doesn’t work. The manual states you must hold button 1 for 3 sec. After that the device will pair. If you unpair the device, the setup button can then be used to reset/pair the device again.

docs/devices/8719514440937_8719514440999.md, after:

---
title: "Philips 8719514440937/8719514440999 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Philips 8719514440937/8719514440999 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-08-31T11:26:27
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Philips 8719514440937/8719514440999

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 8719514440937/8719514440999  |
| Vendor  | [Philips](/supported-devices/#v=Philips)  |
| Description | Hue Tap dial switch |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Philips 8719514440937/8719514440999](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/8719514440937-8719514440999.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
The device can be set to pairing mode by removing the device's back cover. There is a small "setup" button next to the battery which must be pressed for a few seconds by using a paperclip or something similiar, which will bring the device into pairing mode. If this is a brand new device, hold button 1 for 3 sec to pair. 
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).

## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `button_1_press`, `button_1_press_release`, `button_1_hold`, `button_1_hold_release`, `button_2_press`, `button_2_press_release`, `button_2_hold`, `button_2_hold_release`, `button_3_press`, `button_3_press_release`, `button_3_hold`, `button_3_hold_release`, `button_4_press`, `button_4_press_release`, `button_4_hold`, `button_4_hold_release`, `dial_rotate_left_step`, `dial_rotate_left_slow`, `dial_rotate_left_fast`, `dial_rotate_right_step`, `dial_rotate_right_slow`, `dial_rotate_right_fast`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
