docs/devices/9290024426.md, before:

---
title: "Philips 9290024426 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Philips 9290024426 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-10-18T17:17:55Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Philips 9290024426

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 9290024426  |
| Vendor  | [Philips](/supported-devices/#v=Philips)  |
| Description | Hue smart plug - CH |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Philips 9290024426](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/9290024426.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Power-on behavior
This device allows you to set the power-on behavior. Note that this requires at least November/December '18 firmware update of the device.
Send a MQTT command to [`zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/../guide/usage/mqtt_topics_and_messages.md#zigbee2mqttfriendly_nameset) with the following payload.

```js
{
    "hue_power_on_behavior": "on",          // default, on, off, recover
    "hue_power_on_brightness": 125,         // same values as brightness
    "hue_power_on_color_temperature": 280,  // same values as color_temp
    "hue_power_on_color": "#0000FF"         // color in hex notation, e.g. #0000FF = blue
}
```

Attribute Value | Description
----------------|-----------------------------------------------
default         | reset to factory default value
on              | bulb on after power loss with configured brightness, color-temperature and color
off             | bulb off after power loss
recover         | last running state after power loss

Rules:
- `hue_power_on_behavior` value always has to be provided
- `hue_power_on_brightness`, `hue_power_on_color_temperature` and `hue_power_on_color` can only be provided when `hue_power_on_behavior` = `on`
- `hue_power_on_color_temperature` and `hue_power_on_color` cannot be provided together, only one can be set
- When setting `hue_power_on_behavior` = `on`, any not provided values will be reset to their factory defaults

Note: if `hue_power_on_behavior` is set to `off`, then the only way to turn the bulb on will be through a paired smart device (see pairing above). You will NOT be able to turn the bulb on by sequentially switching power on and off.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the switch will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the switch firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update 9290024426: Add pairing instructions (#2567)
Pairing is actually identical to the EU version (model 929002240401) which is where I've copied the them from.

docs/devices/9290024426.md, after:

---
title: "Philips 9290024426 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Philips 9290024426 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-10-18T17:17:55Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Philips 9290024426

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 9290024426  |
| Vendor  | [Philips](/supported-devices/#v=Philips)  |
| Description | Hue smart plug - CH |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Philips 9290024426](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/9290024426.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing

Hold down power button (side of the switch) about 10 seconds, release once it blinks and then turns green.

### Power-on behavior
This device allows you to set the power-on behavior. Note that this requires at least November/December '18 firmware update of the device.
Send a MQTT command to [`zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/../guide/usage/mqtt_topics_and_messages.md#zigbee2mqttfriendly_nameset) with the following payload.

```js
{
    "hue_power_on_behavior": "on",          // default, on, off, recover
    "hue_power_on_brightness": 125,         // same values as brightness
    "hue_power_on_color_temperature": 280,  // same values as color_temp
    "hue_power_on_color": "#0000FF"         // color in hex notation, e.g. #0000FF = blue
}
```

Attribute Value | Description
----------------|-----------------------------------------------
default         | reset to factory default value
on              | bulb on after power loss with configured brightness, color-temperature and color
off             | bulb off after power loss
recover         | last running state after power loss

Rules:
- `hue_power_on_behavior` value always has to be provided
- `hue_power_on_brightness`, `hue_power_on_color_temperature` and `hue_power_on_color` can only be provided when `hue_power_on_behavior` = `on`
- `hue_power_on_color_temperature` and `hue_power_on_color` cannot be provided together, only one can be set
- When setting `hue_power_on_behavior` = `on`, any not provided values will be reset to their factory defaults

Note: if `hue_power_on_behavior` is set to `off`, then the only way to turn the bulb on will be through a paired smart device (see pairing above). You will NOT be able to turn the bulb on by sequentially switching power on and off.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the switch will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the switch firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
