docs/devices/9290012573A.md, before:

---
title: "Philips 9290012573A control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Philips 9290012573A via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Philips 9290012573A

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 9290012573A  |
| Vendor  | [Philips](/supported-devices/#v=Philips)  |
| Description | Hue white and color ambiance E26/E27/E14 |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, color_temp, color_temp_startup, color_xy, color_hs), effect, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Philips 9290012573A](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/9290012573A.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Factory resetting a Hue bulb can be accomplished in 5 ways.
After resetting the bulb will automatically connect.

#### Touchlink factory reset
See [Touchlink](../guide/usage/touchlink.md)

#### Hue bridge
When the bulb is still connected to the Hue bridge, you can simply factory reset the bulb
by removing it from the bridge via the Hue app. Orphaned bulbs (configured to connect to a non-existing Zigbee network) can be adopted by a Hue bridge by entering the 6 character serial number in the Philips Hue app.

#### Hue dimmer switch
With [one](./324131092621.md) of the [two](./929002398602.md) Hue Dimmer switches it is possible to put the bulbs into a factory reset.

1. Power-supply the bulb
2. Bring the dimmer switch next to the bulb, as close as possible
3. Hold the I/On and 0/Off button pressed simultaneously for 10 to 12 seconds until…
4. The bulb flashes a couple of times. Don't release the buttons until the last flash + a safety second
5. Switch the bulb off and on again: it can now be paired again.

See also the [VIDEO: Factory reset a Hue bulb with Hue dimmer switch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qvlEAELiJKs).

#### Bluetooth (if supported by device)
Install the Philips Hue Bluetooth app for [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.signify.hue.blue)
or [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/philips-hue-bluetooth/id1456604186). You can use the app to trigger a factory reset on a paired light. (Note: The light will only be in bluetooth pairing
mode for a couple of minutes after power-on)

#### TRADFRI remote control
This may also be possible with the
[Tradfri Remote Control](https://www.ikea.com/us/en/images/products/tradfri-remote-control__0489469_PE623665_S4.JPG)
by pressing and holding the reset button on the bottom of the remote (next to the battery).
[This may not always work, even if the Hue bulb starts flashing](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/296#issuecomment-416923751).


### Power-on behavior
This device allows you to set the power-on behavior. Note that this requires at least November/December '18 firmware update of the device.
Send a MQTT command to [`zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/../guide/usage/mqtt_topics_and_messages.md#zigbee2mqttfriendly_nameset) with the following payload.

```js
{
    "hue_power_on_behavior": "on",          // default, on, off, recover
    "hue_power_on_brightness": 125,         // same values as brightness
    "hue_power_on_color_temperature": 280,  // same values as color_temp
    "hue_power_on_color": "#0000FF"         // color in hex notation, e.g. #0000FF = blue
}
```

Attribute Value | Description
----------------|-----------------------------------------------
default         | reset to factory default value
on              | bulb on after power loss with configured brightness, color-temperature and color
off             | bulb off after power loss
recover         | last running state after power loss

Rules:
- `hue_power_on_behavior` value always has to be provided
- `hue_power_on_brightness`, `hue_power_on_color_temperature` and `hue_power_on_color` can only be provided when `hue_power_on_behavior` = `on`
- `hue_power_on_color_temperature` and `hue_power_on_color` cannot be provided together, only one can be set
- When setting `hue_power_on_behavior` = `on`, any not provided values will be reset to their factory defaults

Note: if `hue_power_on_behavior` is set to `off`, then the only way to turn the bulb on will be through a paired smart device (see pairing above). You will NOT be able to turn the bulb on by sequentially switching power on and off.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `color_sync`: When enabled colors will be synced, e.g. if the light supports both color x/y and color temperature a conversion from color x/y to color temperature will be done when setting the x/y color (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `color_temp`, `color_temp_startup`, `color_xy`, `color_hs`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.
- `color_temp`: To control the color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `153` and `500`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`.
- `color_temp_startup`: To set the startup color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `153` and `500`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the startup color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`, `previous`.
- `color_xy`: To control the XY color (CIE 1931 color space) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color": {"x": X_VALUE, "y": Y_VALUE}}` (e.g. `{"color":{"x":0.123,"y":0.123}}`). To read the XY color send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color":{"x":"","y":""}}`. Alternatively it is possible to set the XY color via RGB:
  - `{"color": {"r": R, "g": G, "b": B}}` e.g. `{"color":{"r":46,"g":102,"b":150}}`
  - `{"color": {"rgb": "R,G,B"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"rgb":"46,102,150"}}`
  - `{"color": {"hex": HEX}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hex":"#547CFF"}}`
- `color_hs`: To control the hue/saturation (color) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color": {"hue": HUE, "saturation": SATURATION}}` (e.g. `{"color":{"hue":360,"saturation":100}}`). To read the hue/saturation send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color":{"hue":"","saturation":""}}`. Alternatively it is possible to set the hue/saturation via:
  - HSB space (hue, saturation, brightness): `{"color": {"h": H, "s": S, "b": B}}` e.g. `{"color":{"h":360,"s":100,"b":100}}` or `{"color": {"hsb": "H,S,B"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hsb":"360,100,100"}}`
  - HSV space (hue, saturation, brightness):`{"color": {"h": H, "s": S, "v": V}}` e.g. `{"color":{"h":360,"s":100,"v":100}}` or `{"color": {"hsv": "H,S,V"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hsv":"360,100,100"}}`
  - HSL space (hue, saturation, lightness)`{"color": {"h": H, "s": S, "l": L}}` e.g. `{"color":{"h":360,"s":100,"l":100}}` or `{"color": {"hsl": "H,S,L"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hsl":"360,100,100"}}`

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
  "color_temp_move": 60, // Starts moving color temperature up at 60 units per second
  "color_temp_move": "stop", // Stop moving color temperature
  "color_temp_step": 99, // Increase color temperature by 99
  "hue_move": 40, // Starts moving hue up at 40 units per second, will endlessly loop (allowed value range: -255 till 255)
  "hue_step": -90, // Decrease hue by 90 (allowed value range: -255 till 255)
  "saturation_move": -55, // Starts moving saturation down at -55 units per second (allowed value range: -255 till 255)
  "saturation_step": 66, // Increase saturation by 66 (allowed value range: -255 till 255)
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Make it clear that Hue 9290012573A has no BT (#1701)
* Make it clear that Hue 9290012573A has no BT

Source (german): https://www.digitalzimmer.de/artikel/wissen/hue-generation-1-2-3-4-5-6-unterschiede/

* Bluetooth hint under Notes

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/9290012573A.md, after:

---
title: "Philips 9290012573A control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Philips 9290012573A via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Philips 9290012573A

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | 9290012573A  |
| Vendor  | Philips  |
| Description | Hue white and color, E27 socket, 9.5 watt power draw, 806 lumen |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, color_temp, color_temp_startup, color_xy, color_hs), effect, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Philips 9290012573A](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/9290012573A.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Bluetooth
This device unfortunately does not support Bluetooth as it belongs to Hue Generation 4 and Bluetooth is only supported from Generation 5 onwards.


### Pairing
Factory resetting a Hue bulb can be accomplished in 5 ways.
After resetting the bulb will automatically connect.

#### Touchlink factory reset
See [Touchlink](../guide/usage/touchlink.md)

#### Hue bridge
When the bulb is still connected to the Hue bridge, you can simply factory reset the bulb
by removing it from the bridge via the Hue app. Orphaned bulbs (configured to connect to a non-existing Zigbee network) can be adopted by a Hue bridge by entering the 6 character serial number in the Philips Hue app.

#### Hue dimmer switch
With [one](./324131092621.md) of the [two](./929002398602.md) Hue Dimmer switches it is possible to put the bulbs into a factory reset.

1. Power-supply the bulb
2. Bring the dimmer switch next to the bulb, as close as possible
3. Hold the I/On and 0/Off button pressed simultaneously for 10 to 12 seconds until…
4. The bulb flashes a couple of times. Don't release the buttons until the last flash + a safety second
5. Switch the bulb off and on again: it can now be paired again.

See also the [VIDEO: Factory reset a Hue bulb with Hue dimmer switch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qvlEAELiJKs).

#### TRADFRI remote control
This may also be possible with the
[Tradfri Remote Control](https://www.ikea.com/us/en/images/products/tradfri-remote-control__0489469_PE623665_S4.JPG)
by pressing and holding the reset button on the bottom of the remote (next to the battery).
[This may not always work, even if the Hue bulb starts flashing](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/296#issuecomment-416923751).


### Power-on behavior
This device allows you to set the power-on behavior. Note that this requires at least November/December '18 firmware update of the device.
Send a MQTT command to [`zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/../guide/usage/mqtt_topics_and_messages.md#zigbee2mqttfriendly_nameset) with the following payload.

```js
{
    "hue_power_on_behavior": "on",          // default, on, off, recover
    "hue_power_on_brightness": 125,         // same values as brightness
    "hue_power_on_color_temperature": 280,  // same values as color_temp
    "hue_power_on_color": "#0000FF"         // color in hex notation, e.g. #0000FF = blue
}
```

Attribute Value | Description
----------------|-----------------------------------------------
default         | reset to factory default value
on              | bulb on after power loss with configured brightness, color-temperature and color
off             | bulb off after power loss
recover         | last running state after power loss

Rules:
- `hue_power_on_behavior` value always has to be provided
- `hue_power_on_brightness`, `hue_power_on_color_temperature` and `hue_power_on_color` can only be provided when `hue_power_on_behavior` = `on`
- `hue_power_on_color_temperature` and `hue_power_on_color` cannot be provided together, only one can be set
- When setting `hue_power_on_behavior` = `on`, any not provided values will be reset to their factory defaults

Note: if `hue_power_on_behavior` is set to `off`, then the only way to turn the bulb on will be through a paired smart device (see pairing above). You will NOT be able to turn the bulb on by sequentially switching power on and off.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `color_sync`: When enabled colors will be synced, e.g. if the light supports both color x/y and color temperature a conversion from color x/y to color temperature will be done when setting the x/y color (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `color_temp`, `color_temp_startup`, `color_xy`, `color_hs`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.
- `color_temp`: To control the color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `153` and `500`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`.
- `color_temp_startup`: To set the startup color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `153` and `500`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the startup color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`, `previous`.
- `color_xy`: To control the XY color (CIE 1931 color space) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color": {"x": X_VALUE, "y": Y_VALUE}}` (e.g. `{"color":{"x":0.123,"y":0.123}}`). To read the XY color send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color":{"x":"","y":""}}`. Alternatively it is possible to set the XY color via RGB:
  - `{"color": {"r": R, "g": G, "b": B}}` e.g. `{"color":{"r":46,"g":102,"b":150}}`
  - `{"color": {"rgb": "R,G,B"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"rgb":"46,102,150"}}`
  - `{"color": {"hex": HEX}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hex":"#547CFF"}}`
- `color_hs`: To control the hue/saturation (color) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color": {"hue": HUE, "saturation": SATURATION}}` (e.g. `{"color":{"hue":360,"saturation":100}}`). To read the hue/saturation send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color":{"hue":"","saturation":""}}`. Alternatively it is possible to set the hue/saturation via:
  - HSB space (hue, saturation, brightness): `{"color": {"h": H, "s": S, "b": B}}` e.g. `{"color":{"h":360,"s":100,"b":100}}` or `{"color": {"hsb": "H,S,B"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hsb":"360,100,100"}}`
  - HSV space (hue, saturation, brightness):`{"color": {"h": H, "s": S, "v": V}}` e.g. `{"color":{"h":360,"s":100,"v":100}}` or `{"color": {"hsv": "H,S,V"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hsv":"360,100,100"}}`
  - HSL space (hue, saturation, lightness)`{"color": {"h": H, "s": S, "l": L}}` e.g. `{"color":{"h":360,"s":100,"l":100}}` or `{"color": {"hsl": "H,S,L"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hsl":"360,100,100"}}`

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
  "color_temp_move": 60, // Starts moving color temperature up at 60 units per second
  "color_temp_move": "stop", // Stop moving color temperature
  "color_temp_step": 99, // Increase color temperature by 99
  "hue_move": 40, // Starts moving hue up at 40 units per second, will endlessly loop (allowed value range: -255 till 255)
  "hue_step": -90, // Decrease hue by 90 (allowed value range: -255 till 255)
  "saturation_move": -55, // Starts moving saturation down at -55 units per second (allowed value range: -255 till 255)
  "saturation_step": 66, // Increase saturation by 66 (allowed value range: -255 till 255)
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
