docs/devices/AC03641.md, before:

---
title: "OSRAM AC03641 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your OSRAM AC03641 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# OSRAM AC03641

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | AC03641  |
| Vendor  | [OSRAM](/supported-devices/#v=OSRAM)  |
| Description | LIGHTIFY LED Classic A60 clear |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness), effect, power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![OSRAM AC03641](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/AC03641.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Follow instruction from [Manual reset](http://belkin.force.com/Articles/articles/en_US/Troubleshooting_and_Tutorials/Resetting-the-OSRAM-LIGHTIFY-Tunable-White-60-Bulb#a).
After resetting the bulb will automatically connect.


### Set default power on/off transition
Various Osram/Sylvania LED support setting a default transition when turning a light on and off.

**TOPIC**: `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`
```js
{
    "set_transition": 1
}
```
**INFO**: Value is time in seconds (integer, float values are not supported)

### Remember current light state
Various Osram/Sylvania LED support remembering their current state in case of power loss, or if a light
is manually switched off then on. Lights will remember their respective attributes
(i.e. brightness, color, saturation, etc.).
**NOTE**: This must be executed every time you make changes to a light's attributes for it to then 'remember' it.

**TOPIC**: `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`
```js
{
    "remember_state": true
}
```
**INFO**: Value is true, false (boolean)
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Fix AC03641.md pairing instructions
The process differs from all other lamps as described here: https://www.osram.com/cb/lightify/lightify-home/lightify-home-faq/lightify_home_faqs.jsp

docs/devices/AC03641.md, after:

---
title: "OSRAM AC03641 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your OSRAM AC03641 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# OSRAM AC03641

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | AC03641  |
| Vendor  | [OSRAM](/supported-devices/#v=OSRAM)  |
| Description | LIGHTIFY LED Classic A60 clear |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness), effect, power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![OSRAM AC03641](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/AC03641.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
To reset, start with the lighted powerd off. Power it on for 2 seconds and off for 5 seconds, five times in succession. When powering the lght on again,  it flashes shortly once to confirm.
After resetting the bulb will automatically connect.


### Set default power on/off transition
Various Osram/Sylvania LED support setting a default transition when turning a light on and off.

**TOPIC**: `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`
```js
{
    "set_transition": 1
}
```
**INFO**: Value is time in seconds (integer, float values are not supported)

### Remember current light state
Various Osram/Sylvania LED support remembering their current state in case of power loss, or if a light
is manually switched off then on. Lights will remember their respective attributes
(i.e. brightness, color, saturation, etc.).
**NOTE**: This must be executed every time you make changes to a light's attributes for it to then 'remember' it.

**TOPIC**: `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`
```js
{
    "remember_state": true
}
```
**INFO**: Value is true, false (boolean)
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
