docs/devices/BMCT-SLZ.md, before:

---
title: "Bosch BMCT-SLZ control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Bosch BMCT-SLZ via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-04-27T17:34:39
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Bosch BMCT-SLZ

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BMCT-SLZ  |
| Vendor  | [Bosch](/supported-devices/#v=Bosch)  |
| Description | Bosch Light/shutter control unit II |
| Exposes | device_type, switch_type, switch (state), power_on_behavior, child_lock, cover (state, position), motor_state, calibration_closing_time, calibration_opening_time, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Bosch BMCT-SLZ](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BMCT-SLZ.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

The device can operate either as a two-channel light switch or as roller shutter/window blind. The operation mode is set after the initial pairing. Currently, the light switch operation mode is configured as a default. Roller shutter operation mode is not supported yet.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `invert_cover`: Inverts the cover position, false: open=100,close=0, true: open=0,close=100 (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Device_type (enum)
Device type: .
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_type` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"device_type": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"device_type": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `light`, `shutter`.

### Switch_type (enum)
Module controlled by a rocker switch or a button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `switch_type` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"switch_type": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"switch_type": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `button`, `button_key_change`, `rocker_switch`, `rocker_rwitch_key_change`.

### Switch (left endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_left` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_left": "ON"}`, `{"state_left": "OFF"}` or `{"state_left": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_left": ""}`.

### Switch (right endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_right` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_right": "ON"}`, `{"state_right": "OFF"}` or `{"state_right": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_right": ""}`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum, right endpoint)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior_right` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior_right": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior_right": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum, left endpoint)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior_left` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior_left": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior_left": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Child_lock (binary, left endpoint)
Enable/Disable child lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock_left` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock_left": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock_left": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` child_lock is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Child_lock (binary, right endpoint)
Enable/Disable child lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock_right` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock_right": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock_right": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` child_lock is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Cover 
The current state of this cover is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `OPEN` or `CLOSE`).
To control this cover publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "OPEN"}`, `{"state": "CLOSE"}`, `{"state": "STOP"}`.
To read the current state of this cover publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
To change the position publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"position": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `100`.

### Motor_state (enum)
Shutter motor actual state .
Value can be found in the published state on the `motor_state` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `idle`, `opening`, `closing`.

### Child_lock (binary)
Enable/Disable child lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` child_lock is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Calibration_closing_time (numeric)
Calibration opening time.
Value can be found in the published state on the `calibration_closing_time` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"calibration_closing_time": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"calibration_closing_time": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `1` and the maximum value is `90`.
The unit of this value is `S`.

### Calibration_opening_time (numeric)
Calibration closing time.
Value can be found in the published state on the `calibration_opening_time` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"calibration_opening_time": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"calibration_opening_time": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `1` and the maximum value is `90`.
The unit of this value is `S`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Adding section about install code to documentation for Bosch BMCT-SLZ
The same as for the other Bosch devices.
According to Bosch the QR-Code needs to be scanned to adopt it in the app -> Install Code is needed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jJTEqrew2rU

docs/devices/BMCT-SLZ.md, after:

---
title: "Bosch BMCT-SLZ control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Bosch BMCT-SLZ via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-04-27T17:34:39
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Bosch BMCT-SLZ

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BMCT-SLZ  |
| Vendor  | [Bosch](/supported-devices/#v=Bosch)  |
| Description | Bosch Light/shutter control unit II |
| Exposes | device_type, switch_type, switch (state), power_on_behavior, child_lock, cover (state, position), motor_state, calibration_closing_time, calibration_opening_time, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Bosch BMCT-SLZ](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BMCT-SLZ.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

The device can operate either as a two-channel light switch or as roller shutter/window blind. The operation mode is set after the initial pairing. Currently, the light switch operation mode is configured as a default. Roller shutter operation mode is not supported yet.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

### Pairing

To pair this device you have to install the device via its installation code. The installation code can be obtained by scanning the QR-code on the inside of the battery cover with your smartphone. Then get the device into pairing mode. In zigbee2mqtt navigate to "Settings" --> "Tools" and click on "Add install code". Paste the code you got from the QR-code and confirm by clicking "OK" which will get zigbee2mqtt into pairing mode automatically. Wait for your device to be joined.


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `invert_cover`: Inverts the cover position, false: open=100,close=0, true: open=0,close=100 (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Device_type (enum)
Device type: .
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_type` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"device_type": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"device_type": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `light`, `shutter`.

### Switch_type (enum)
Module controlled by a rocker switch or a button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `switch_type` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"switch_type": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"switch_type": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `button`, `button_key_change`, `rocker_switch`, `rocker_rwitch_key_change`.

### Switch (left endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_left` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_left": "ON"}`, `{"state_left": "OFF"}` or `{"state_left": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_left": ""}`.

### Switch (right endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_right` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_right": "ON"}`, `{"state_right": "OFF"}` or `{"state_right": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_right": ""}`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum, right endpoint)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior_right` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior_right": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior_right": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum, left endpoint)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior_left` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior_left": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior_left": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Child_lock (binary, left endpoint)
Enable/Disable child lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock_left` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock_left": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock_left": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` child_lock is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Child_lock (binary, right endpoint)
Enable/Disable child lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock_right` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock_right": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock_right": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` child_lock is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Cover 
The current state of this cover is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `OPEN` or `CLOSE`).
To control this cover publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "OPEN"}`, `{"state": "CLOSE"}`, `{"state": "STOP"}`.
To read the current state of this cover publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
To change the position publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"position": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `100`.

### Motor_state (enum)
Shutter motor actual state .
Value can be found in the published state on the `motor_state` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `idle`, `opening`, `closing`.

### Child_lock (binary)
Enable/Disable child lock.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` child_lock is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Calibration_closing_time (numeric)
Calibration opening time.
Value can be found in the published state on the `calibration_closing_time` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"calibration_closing_time": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"calibration_closing_time": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `1` and the maximum value is `90`.
The unit of this value is `S`.

### Calibration_opening_time (numeric)
Calibration closing time.
Value can be found in the published state on the `calibration_opening_time` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"calibration_opening_time": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"calibration_opening_time": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `1` and the maximum value is `90`.
The unit of this value is `S`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
