docs/devices/BRT-100-TRV.md, before:

---
title: "Moes BRT-100-TRV control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Moes BRT-100-TRV via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-07-01T18:17:29Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Moes BRT-100-TRV

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BRT-100-TRV  |
| Vendor  | [Moes](/supported-devices/#v=Moes)  |
| Description | Thermostatic radiator valve |
| Exposes | battery, lock (state), eco_mode, eco_temperature, max_temperature, min_temperature, valve_state, position, switch (state), window, climate (local_temperature, current_heating_setpoint, local_temperature_calibration, system_mode, running_state, preset), programming_mode, boost_heating, boost_heating_countdown, boost_heating_countdown_time_set, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Moes BRT-100-TRV](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BRT-100-TRV.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Eco_mode (binary)
ECO mode (energy saving mode).
Value can be found in the published state on the `eco_mode` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"eco_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` eco_mode is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Eco_temperature (numeric)
Eco temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `eco_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"eco_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Max_temperature (numeric)
Maximum temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `max_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"max_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `15` and the maximum value is `45`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Min_temperature (numeric)
Minimum temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `min_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"min_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `15`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Valve_state (binary)
Valve state if open or closed.
Value can be found in the published state on the `valve_state` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `OPEN` valve_state is ON, if `CLOSED` OFF.

### Position (numeric)
Position.
Value can be found in the published state on the `position` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `window_detection` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_detection": "ON"}`, `{"window_detection": "OFF"}` or `{"window_detection": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Window (binary)
Window status closed or open .
Value can be found in the published state on the `window` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `OPEN` window is ON, if `CLOSED` OFF.

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `local_temperature`, `current_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `system_mode`, `running_state`, `preset`.
- `current_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"current_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `35`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"current_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `preset`: MANUAL MODE ☝ - In this mode, the device executes manual temperature setting. When the set temperature is lower than the "minimum temperature", the valve is closed (forced closed). PROGRAMMING MODE ⏱ - In this mode, the device executes a preset week programming temperature time and temperature. HOLIDAY MODE ⛱ - In this mode, for example, the vacation mode is set for 10 days and the temperature is setto 15 degrees Celsius. After 10 days, the device will automatically switch to programming mode. TEMPORARY MANUAL MODE - In this mode, ☝ icon will flash. At this time, the device executes the manually set temperature and returns to the weekly programming mode in the next time period. . To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"preset": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `programming`, `manual`, `temporary_manual`, `holiday`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"preset": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to be used in the local_temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`

### Programming_mode (text)
PROGRAMMING MODE ⏱ - In this mode, the device executes a preset week programming temperature time and temperature. You can set up to 4 stages of temperature every for WEEKDAY ➀➁➂➃➄,  SATURDAY ➅ and SUNDAY ➆..
Value can be found in the published state on the `programming_mode` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"programming_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.

### Boost_heating (binary)
Boost Heating: press and hold "+" for 3 seconds, the device will enter the boost heating mode, and the ▷╵◁ will flash. The countdown will be displayed in the APP.
Value can be found in the published state on the `boost_heating` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"boost_heating": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` boost_heating is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Boost_heating_countdown (numeric)
Countdown in minutes.
Value can be found in the published state on the `boost_heating_countdown` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `15`.
The unit of this value is `Min`.

### Boost_heating_countdown_time_set (numeric)
Boost Time Setting 100 sec - 900 sec, (default = 300 sec).
Value can be found in the published state on the `boost_heating_countdown_time_set` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"boost_heating_countdown_time_set": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `100` and the maximum value is `900`.
The unit of this value is `second`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update BRT-100-TRV.md (#1719)
Added pairing instructions

docs/devices/BRT-100-TRV.md, after:

---
title: "Moes BRT-100-TRV control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Moes BRT-100-TRV via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-07-01T18:17:29Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Moes BRT-100-TRV

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BRT-100-TRV  |
| Vendor  | [Moes](/supported-devices/#v=Moes)  |
| Description | Thermostatic radiator valve |
| Exposes | battery, lock (state), eco_mode, eco_temperature, max_temperature, min_temperature, valve_state, position, switch (state), window, climate (local_temperature, current_heating_setpoint, local_temperature_calibration, system_mode, running_state, preset), programming_mode, boost_heating, boost_heating_countdown, boost_heating_countdown_time_set, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Moes BRT-100-TRV](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BRT-100-TRV.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing

While pairing, keep the valve close to the coordinator.

1. *Turn the display on*: Short press home (🏠).
2. *Enable pairing mode*: Long press - (minus) for 3 seconds. WiFi logo is now blinking. 

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Eco_mode (binary)
ECO mode (energy saving mode).
Value can be found in the published state on the `eco_mode` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"eco_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` eco_mode is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Eco_temperature (numeric)
Eco temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `eco_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"eco_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Max_temperature (numeric)
Maximum temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `max_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"max_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `15` and the maximum value is `45`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Min_temperature (numeric)
Minimum temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `min_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"min_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `15`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Valve_state (binary)
Valve state if open or closed.
Value can be found in the published state on the `valve_state` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `OPEN` valve_state is ON, if `CLOSED` OFF.

### Position (numeric)
Position.
Value can be found in the published state on the `position` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `window_detection` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_detection": "ON"}`, `{"window_detection": "OFF"}` or `{"window_detection": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Window (binary)
Window status closed or open .
Value can be found in the published state on the `window` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `OPEN` window is ON, if `CLOSED` OFF.

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `local_temperature`, `current_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `system_mode`, `running_state`, `preset`.
- `current_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"current_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `35`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"current_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `preset`: MANUAL MODE ☝ - In this mode, the device executes manual temperature setting. When the set temperature is lower than the "minimum temperature", the valve is closed (forced closed). PROGRAMMING MODE ⏱ - In this mode, the device executes a preset week programming temperature time and temperature. HOLIDAY MODE ⛱ - In this mode, for example, the vacation mode is set for 10 days and the temperature is setto 15 degrees Celsius. After 10 days, the device will automatically switch to programming mode. TEMPORARY MANUAL MODE - In this mode, ☝ icon will flash. At this time, the device executes the manually set temperature and returns to the weekly programming mode in the next time period. . To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"preset": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `programming`, `manual`, `temporary_manual`, `holiday`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"preset": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to be used in the local_temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`

### Programming_mode (text)
PROGRAMMING MODE ⏱ - In this mode, the device executes a preset week programming temperature time and temperature. You can set up to 4 stages of temperature every for WEEKDAY ➀➁➂➃➄,  SATURDAY ➅ and SUNDAY ➆..
Value can be found in the published state on the `programming_mode` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"programming_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.

### Boost_heating (binary)
Boost Heating: press and hold "+" for 3 seconds, the device will enter the boost heating mode, and the ▷╵◁ will flash. The countdown will be displayed in the APP.
Value can be found in the published state on the `boost_heating` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"boost_heating": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` boost_heating is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Boost_heating_countdown (numeric)
Countdown in minutes.
Value can be found in the published state on the `boost_heating_countdown` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `15`.
The unit of this value is `Min`.

### Boost_heating_countdown_time_set (numeric)
Boost Time Setting 100 sec - 900 sec, (default = 300 sec).
Value can be found in the published state on the `boost_heating_countdown_time_set` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"boost_heating_countdown_time_set": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `100` and the maximum value is `900`.
The unit of this value is `second`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
