docs/devices/BSP-EZ2.md, before:

---
title: "Bosch BSP-EZ2 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Bosch BSP-EZ2 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-02-01T14:45:57
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Bosch BSP-EZ2

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BSP-EZ2  |
| Vendor  | [Bosch](/supported-devices/#v=Bosch)  |
| Description | Plug compact FR |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_on_behavior, power, energy, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Bosch BSP-EZ2](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BSP-EZ2.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add notes for some Bosch devices on how to pair and factory reset them

docs/devices/BSP-EZ2.md, after:

---
title: "Bosch BSP-EZ2 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Bosch BSP-EZ2 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-02-01T14:45:57
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Bosch BSP-EZ2

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BSP-EZ2  |
| Vendor  | [Bosch](/supported-devices/#v=Bosch)  |
| Description | Plug compact FR |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_on_behavior, power, energy, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Bosch BSP-EZ2](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BSP-EZ2.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
To pair this device you have to install the device via its installation code which you can get by scanning the QR-code sticker on the physical device with your smartphone. Then get the device into pairing mode. In zigbee2mqtt navigate to  "Settings" --> "Tools" and click on "Add install code". Paste the code you got from the QR-code and confirm by clicking "OK" which will get zigbee2mqtt into pairing mode automatically. Wait for your device to be joined.


### Factory resetting
To factory reset the device unplug it from the mains. While pressing and holding the device's main button on the top, plug it in again. As soon as the device's LED is starting to blink orange, release the main button and press and hold it again until the device's LED is lighting up green. The device will then restart and look for a Zigbee network to join. In case something went wrong, the device's LED will start to blink red. The process has then to be start all over again.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
