docs/devices/BTH-RM230Z.md, before:

---
title: "Bosch BTH-RM230Z control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Bosch BTH-RM230Z via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-09-01T13:40:11
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Bosch BTH-RM230Z

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BTH-RM230Z  |
| Vendor  | [Bosch](/supported-devices/#v=Bosch)  |
| Description | Room thermostat II 230V |
| Exposes | climate (local_temperature, occupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature_calibration, system_mode, running_state), humidity, boost, window_open, lock (state), display_ontime, display_brightness, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Bosch BTH-RM230Z](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BTH-RM230Z.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Pairing
To pair this device you have to install the device via its installation code. The installation code can be obtained by scanning the QR-code on the back of the cover with your smartphone. Then get the device into pairing mode. In zigbee2mqtt navigate to "Settings" --> "Tools" and click on "Add install code". Paste the code you got from the QR-code and confirm by clicking "OK" which will get zigbee2mqtt into pairing mode automatically. Wait for your device to be joined.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `local_temperature`, `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `system_mode`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`, `auto`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to add/subtract to the local temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.The minimal value is `-12` and the maximum value is `12` with a step size of `0.5`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Boost (binary)
Activate Boost heating.
Value can be found in the published state on the `boost` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"boost": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"boost": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` boost is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Window open (binary)
Window open.
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_open` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_open": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_open": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` window open is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Child lock (lock)
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
To read the current state of this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.

### Display ontime (numeric)
Specifies the display On-time.
Value can be found in the published state on the `display_ontime` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"display_ontime": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"display_ontime": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `30`.

### Display brightness (numeric)
Specifies the brightness value of the display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `display_brightness` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"display_brightness": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"display_brightness": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `10`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

change window_open to window_detection in BTH-RM230Z.md

docs/devices/BTH-RM230Z.md, after:

---
title: "Bosch BTH-RM230Z control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Bosch BTH-RM230Z via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-09-01T13:40:11
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Bosch BTH-RM230Z

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BTH-RM230Z  |
| Vendor  | [Bosch](/supported-devices/#v=Bosch)  |
| Description | Room thermostat II 230V |
| Exposes | climate (local_temperature, occupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature_calibration, system_mode, running_state), humidity, boost, window_detection, lock (state), display_ontime, display_brightness, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Bosch BTH-RM230Z](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BTH-RM230Z.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Pairing
To pair this device you have to install the device via its installation code. The installation code can be obtained by scanning the QR-code on the back of the cover with your smartphone. Then get the device into pairing mode. In zigbee2mqtt navigate to "Settings" --> "Tools" and click on "Add install code". Paste the code you got from the QR-code and confirm by clicking "OK" which will get zigbee2mqtt into pairing mode automatically. Wait for your device to be joined.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `local_temperature`, `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `system_mode`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`, `auto`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to add/subtract to the local temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.The minimal value is `-12` and the maximum value is `12` with a step size of `0.5`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Boost (binary)
Activate Boost heating.
Value can be found in the published state on the `boost` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"boost": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"boost": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` boost is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Window detection (binary)
Window detection.
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_detection` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_detection": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_detection": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` window detection is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Child lock (lock)
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
To read the current state of this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.

### Display ontime (numeric)
Specifies the display On-time.
Value can be found in the published state on the `display_ontime` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"display_ontime": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"display_ontime": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `30`.

### Display brightness (numeric)
Specifies the brightness value of the display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `display_brightness` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"display_brightness": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"display_brightness": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `10`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
