docs/devices/BWA-1.md, before:

---
title: "Bosch BWA-1 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Bosch BWA-1 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-03-30T17:14:41
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Bosch BWA-1

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BWA-1  |
| Vendor  | [Bosch](/supported-devices/#v=Bosch)  |
| Description | Zigbee smart water leak detector |
| Exposes | water_leak, battery, tamper, alarm_on_motion, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Bosch BWA-1](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BWA-1.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Water_leak (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected a water leak.
Value can be found in the published state on the `water_leak` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` water_leak is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Tamper (binary)
Indicates whether the device is tampered.
Value can be found in the published state on the `tamper` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` tamper is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Alarm_on_motion (binary)
Enable/Disable sound alarm on motion.
Value can be found in the published state on the `alarm_on_motion` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"alarm_on_motion": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"alarm_on_motion": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` alarm_on_motion is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update documentation to include the pairing process via install code
According to the manual https://www.bosch-smarthome.com/de/de/service/hilfe/hilfe-zum-produkt/hilfe-zum-wassermelder/ you need to also scan an install code with this device. There was already an issue (Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt#17315) on the motion sensor because this is missing in the documentation. I think all currently supported Bosch devices that need an Install Code should have this in their documentation now. 
@Koenkk is there any way to make sure this is added for new Bosch devices in the future (as they will probably keep this going).

docs/devices/BWA-1.md, after:

---
title: "Bosch BWA-1 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Bosch BWA-1 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-03-30T17:14:41
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Bosch BWA-1

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BWA-1  |
| Vendor  | [Bosch](/supported-devices/#v=Bosch)  |
| Description | Zigbee smart water leak detector |
| Exposes | water_leak, battery, tamper, alarm_on_motion, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Bosch BWA-1](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BWA-1.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->

## Notes

### Pairing
To pair this device you have to install the device via its installation code. The installation code can be obtained by scanning the QR-code on the inside of the battery cover with your smartphone. Then get the device into pairing mode. In zigbee2mqtt navigate to  "Settings" --> "Tools" and click on "Add install code". Paste the code you got from the QR-code and confirm by clicking "OK" which will get zigbee2mqtt into pairing mode automatically. Wait for your device to be joined.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Water_leak (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected a water leak.
Value can be found in the published state on the `water_leak` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` water_leak is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Tamper (binary)
Indicates whether the device is tampered.
Value can be found in the published state on the `tamper` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` tamper is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Alarm_on_motion (binary)
Enable/Disable sound alarm on motion.
Value can be found in the published state on the `alarm_on_motion` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"alarm_on_motion": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"alarm_on_motion": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` alarm_on_motion is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
