docs/devices/DM2550ZB.md, before:

---
title: "Sinopé DM2550ZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Sinopé DM2550ZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-01-31T17:33:31Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Sinopé DM2550ZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | DM2550ZB  |
| Vendor  | [Sinopé](/supported-devices/#v=Sinop%C3%A9)  |
| Description | Zigbee Adaptive phase smart dimmer |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness), led_intensity_on, led_intensity_off, minimum_brightness, led_color_on, led_color_off, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Sinopé DM2550ZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/DM2550ZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.

### Led_intensity_on (numeric)
Control status LED when load ON.
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_intensity_on": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.

### Led_intensity_off (numeric)
Control status LED when load OFF.
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_intensity_off": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.

### Minimum_brightness (numeric)
Control minimum dimmer brightness.
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"minimum_brightness": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `3000`.

### Led_color_on (composite)
Control status LED color when load ON.
Can be set by publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_color_on": {"r": VALUE, "g": VALUE, "b": VALUE}}`
- `r` (numeric) 
- `g` (numeric) 
- `b` (numeric) 

### Led_color_off (composite)
Control status LED color when load OFF.
Can be set by publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_color_off": {"r": VALUE, "g": VALUE, "b": VALUE}}`
- `r` (numeric) 
- `g` (numeric) 
- `b` (numeric) 

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update zigbee-herdsman-converters to 15.0.38

docs/devices/DM2550ZB.md, after:

---
title: "Sinopé DM2550ZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Sinopé DM2550ZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-01-31T17:33:31Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Sinopé DM2550ZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | DM2550ZB  |
| Vendor  | [Sinopé](/supported-devices/#v=Sinop%C3%A9)  |
| Description | Zigbee Adaptive phase smart dimmer |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness), timer_seconds, led_intensity_on, led_intensity_off, minimum_brightness, led_color_on, led_color_off, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Sinopé DM2550ZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/DM2550ZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.

### Timer_seconds (numeric)
Automatically turn off load after x seconds.
Value can be found in the published state on the `timer_seconds` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"timer_seconds": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"timer_seconds": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `10800`.

### Led_intensity_on (numeric)
Control status LED when load ON.
Value can be found in the published state on the `led_intensity_on` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"led_intensity_on": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_intensity_on": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.

### Led_intensity_off (numeric)
Control status LED when load OFF.
Value can be found in the published state on the `led_intensity_off` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"led_intensity_off": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_intensity_off": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.

### Minimum_brightness (numeric)
Control minimum dimmer brightness.
Value can be found in the published state on the `minimum_brightness` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"minimum_brightness": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"minimum_brightness": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `3000`.

### Led_color_on (composite)
Control status LED color when load ON.
Can be set by publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_color_on": {"r": VALUE, "g": VALUE, "b": VALUE}}`
- `r` (numeric) 
- `g` (numeric) 
- `b` (numeric) 

### Led_color_off (composite)
Control status LED color when load OFF.
Can be set by publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_color_off": {"r": VALUE, "g": VALUE, "b": VALUE}}`
- `r` (numeric) 
- `g` (numeric) 
- `b` (numeric) 

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
