docs/devices/E1524_E1810.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E1524/E1810 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1524/E1810 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-09-08T21:16:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1524/E1810

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1524/E1810  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI remote control |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1524/E1810](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1524-E1810.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Pair the remote to Zigbee2MQTT by holding it close to the coordinator and
pressing the inside button, next to the CR2032 battery, 4 times.
The red light on the (front of the) remote will now flash a few times.

### Troubleshooting: no battery level OR not sending messages at all
It may help to remove the battery for a few seconds and after that reconfigure it via [Configure](../guide/usage/mqtt_topics_and_messages.md#zigbee2mqttbridgeconfigure). Right before executing the Configure make sure to wake up the device by pressing a button on it.

### Troubleshooting: Device didn't respond to OTA request
To resolve the `Device didn't respond to OTA request` error, you can try to push a button on it, shortly before you start the update, to wake up the Remote.

### Binding
The [binding](../guide/usage/binding.md) functionallity of this remote varies per firmware version:
- < 2.3.014: binding is not supported, OTA update your device to get binding functionallity
- 2.3.014 - 2.3.074: suppports binding to groups only. It can only be bound to 1 group at a time. By default this remote is bound to the default bind group which you first have to unbind it from. This can be done by sending to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/device/unbind` payload `{"from": "DEVICE_FRIENDLY_NAME", "to": "default_bind_group"}`. Wake up the device right before sending the commands by pressing a button on it.
- 2.3.075 and greater : supports binding to devices only

**Note:** Prior to sending a 'bind' command using an MQTT message directly or through the frontend, push a button on the remote to wake it up. Otherwise, the remote will not be in a receiving state and the bind will fail with a general 'error'.

Once bound to a group/bulb you will notice that the toggle and brightness buttons will work, but scenes/color temperature most likely won't work. This appears to be a missing piece of functionality ([discussion](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/1232)), but via a workaround this can be managed;
1. Create a group with ID **65289** (name it ie. Trafri_scenes) and add the device(s) you control with the remote.
2. Add/store [scenes](../guide/usage/scenes.md) for the created group
3. Once you click left/right on the remote, the scenes will be called sequentially (should there be a device off sync in scenes, hold the toggle button for 3 sec.).

### Toggle button
When clicking the middle (center) button on the remote it will send a `{"click": "toggle"}`, when holding it
it will **also** send a `{"click": "toggle_hold"}`. It is not possible to skip the `toggle` when the button is hold.
Also the remote won't send anything when the button is released.
See [link](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/2077#issuecomment-538691885) for more details.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `arrow_left_click`, `arrow_left_hold`, `arrow_left_release`, `arrow_right_click`, `arrow_right_hold`, `arrow_right_release`, `brightness_down_click`, `brightness_down_hold`, `brightness_down_release`, `brightness_up_click`, `brightness_up_hold`, `brightness_up_release`, `toggle`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

#16242 - updated description of firmware update of IKEA E1524/E1810

docs/devices/E1524_E1810.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E1524/E1810 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1524/E1810 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-09-08T21:16:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1524/E1810

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1524/E1810  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI remote control |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1524/E1810](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1524-E1810.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Pair the remote to Zigbee2MQTT by holding it close to the coordinator and
pressing the inside button, next to the CR2032 battery, 4 times in 5s.
The red light on the (front of the) remote will now flash a few times.

### Troubleshooting: no battery level OR not sending messages at all
It may help to remove the battery for a few seconds and after that reconfigure it via [Configure](../guide/usage/mqtt_topics_and_messages.md#zigbee2mqttbridgeconfigure). Right before executing the Configure make sure to wake up the device by pressing a button on it.

### Troubleshooting: Device didn't respond to OTA request
To resolve the `Device didn't respond to OTA request` error, you can try to push a button on it, shortly before you start the update, to wake up the Remote.

### Binding
The [binding](../guide/usage/binding.md) functionallity of this remote varies per firmware version:
- < 2.3.014: binding is not supported, OTA update your device to get binding functionallity
- 2.3.014 - 2.3.074: suppports binding to groups only. It can only be bound to 1 group at a time. By default this remote is bound to the default bind group which you first have to unbind it from. This can be done by sending to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/device/unbind` payload `{"from": "DEVICE_FRIENDLY_NAME", "to": "default_bind_group"}`. Wake up the device right before sending the commands by pressing a button on it.
- 2.3.075 and greater : supports binding to devices only

**Note:** Prior to sending a 'bind' command using an MQTT message directly or through the frontend, push a button on the remote to wake it up. Otherwise, the remote will not be in a receiving state and the bind will fail with a general 'error'.

Once bound to a group/bulb you will notice that the toggle and brightness buttons will work, but scenes/color temperature most likely won't work. This appears to be a missing piece of functionality ([discussion](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/1232)), but via a workaround this can be managed;
1. Create a group with ID **65289** (name it ie. Trafri_scenes) and add the device(s) you control with the remote.
2. Add/store [scenes](../guide/usage/scenes.md) for the created group
3. Once you click left/right on the remote, the scenes will be called sequentially (should there be a device off sync in scenes, hold the toggle button for 3 sec.).

### Toggle button
When clicking the middle (center) button on the remote it will send a `{"click": "toggle"}`, when holding it
it will **also** send a `{"click": "toggle_hold"}`. It is not possible to skip the `toggle` when the button is hold.
Also the remote won't send anything when the button is released.
See [link](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/2077#issuecomment-538691885) for more details.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).
If you have problems with running firmware update, try following:
1. after clicking "Updare firmware" button in Z2M, click every 1-2s any of control buttons on remote
2. if remote keeps aborting firmware update, then try with fresh battery and also you can try to reset device (press pair button next to battery 4 times in 5s period)

## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `arrow_left_click`, `arrow_left_hold`, `arrow_left_release`, `arrow_right_click`, `arrow_right_hold`, `arrow_right_release`, `brightness_down_click`, `brightness_down_hold`, `brightness_down_release`, `brightness_up_click`, `brightness_up_hold`, `brightness_up_release`, `toggle`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
