docs/devices/E1525_E1745.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E1525/E1745 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1525/E1745 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-10-30T12:58:50
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1525/E1745

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1525/E1745  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI motion sensor |
| Exposes | battery, occupancy, requested_brightness_level, requested_brightness_percent, illuminance_above_threshold, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1525/E1745](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1525-E1745.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Pair the sensor to Zigbee2MQTT by long pressing the pair button for more than 10 seconds.
The red light on the front side should flash a few times and then turn off. If the light red light does not show up and batteries are OK, try pressing the pair button 4 short times.
After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate. When connected, the light turns off.

### Binding
#### Warning! You need to activate the motion sensor and then immediately press bind in the Zigbee2MQTT interface. If the sensor is sleeping the bind will fail. credits: https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/3831
The E1745 can be bound to groups. Although it is not possible to set the groupID at which the E1745 sends messages. But you can watch out in the log files for following debug messages:

```
debug Received Zigbee message from 'device', type 'commandOnWithTimedOff', cluster 'genOnOff', data '{"ctrlbits":0,"offwaittime":0,"ontime":600}' from endpoint 1 with groupID 123
```

Now you can create a group with a groupID of 123 and add your devices that should receive the message.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `occupancy_timeout`: Time in seconds after which occupancy is cleared after detecting it (default 90 seconds). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `illuminance_below_threshold_check`: Set to false to also send messages when illuminance is above threshold in night mode (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Occupancy (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected occupancy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `occupancy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` occupancy is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Requested brightness level (numeric)
Value can be found in the published state on the `requested_brightness_level` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `76` and the maximum value is `254`.

### Requested brightness percent (numeric)
Value can be found in the published state on the `requested_brightness_percent` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `30` and the maximum value is `100`.

### Illuminance above threshold (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected bright light (works only in night mode).
Value can be found in the published state on the `illuminance_above_threshold` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` illuminance above threshold is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

add a note about occupancy_timeout behaviour (#2696)

docs/devices/E1525_E1745.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E1525/E1745 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1525/E1745 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-10-30T12:58:50
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1525/E1745

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1525/E1745  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI motion sensor |
| Exposes | battery, occupancy, requested_brightness_level, requested_brightness_percent, illuminance_above_threshold, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1525/E1745](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1525-E1745.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Pair the sensor to Zigbee2MQTT by long pressing the pair button for more than 10 seconds.
The red light on the front side should flash a few times and then turn off. If the light red light does not show up and batteries are OK, try pressing the pair button 4 short times.
After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate. When connected, the light turns off.

### Binding
#### Warning! You need to activate the motion sensor and then immediately press bind in the Zigbee2MQTT interface. If the sensor is sleeping the bind will fail. credits: https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/3831
The E1745 can be bound to groups. Although it is not possible to set the groupID at which the E1745 sends messages. But you can watch out in the log files for following debug messages:

### occupancy_timeout option
Setting occupancy_timeout option to a value of fewer than 90 seconds will clear the occupancy flag, but will leave the sensor unresponsive till 90 seconds elapse. credits: https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/13259

```
debug Received Zigbee message from 'device', type 'commandOnWithTimedOff', cluster 'genOnOff', data '{"ctrlbits":0,"offwaittime":0,"ontime":600}' from endpoint 1 with groupID 123
```

Now you can create a group with a groupID of 123 and add your devices that should receive the message.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `occupancy_timeout`: Time in seconds after which occupancy is cleared after detecting it (default 90 seconds). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `illuminance_below_threshold_check`: Set to false to also send messages when illuminance is above threshold in night mode (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Occupancy (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected occupancy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `occupancy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` occupancy is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Requested brightness level (numeric)
Value can be found in the published state on the `requested_brightness_level` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `76` and the maximum value is `254`.

### Requested brightness percent (numeric)
Value can be found in the published state on the `requested_brightness_percent` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `30` and the maximum value is `100`.

### Illuminance above threshold (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected bright light (works only in night mode).
Value can be found in the published state on the `illuminance_above_threshold` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` illuminance above threshold is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
