docs/devices/E1743.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E1743 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1743 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1743

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1743  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI ON/OFF switch |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1743](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1743.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```


### Pairing
Pair the switch to Zigbee2MQTT by pressing the pair button (found under the back cover next to the battery)
4 times in a row. The red light on the front side should flash a few times and then turn off
(it's more visible to see the light from the back). After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate.
When connected, the light turns off.

### Troubleshooting: Device didn't respond to OTA request
To resolve the `Device didn't respond to OTA request` error, you can try to push a button on it, shortly before you start the update, to wake up the Remote. Sometimes it also helps keeping the device awake, by pushing a button repeatedly until you read the first "Updating... 0.00%" message (about 5s).

### Binding
The [binding](../guide/usage/binding.md) functionallity of this remote varies per firmware version:
- below 2.3.075: suppports binding to groups only. It can only be bound to 1 group at a time. By default this remote is bound to the default bind group which you first have to unbind it from. This can be done by sending to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/device/unbind` payload `{"from": "DEVICE_FRIENDLY_NAME", "to": "default_bind_group"}`. Wake up the device right before sending the commands by pressing a button on it.
- 2.3.075 and greater: supports binding to devices only

### Battery Replacement
After replacing the battery, reporting of battery % may not work. If you experience this issue, remove the device and join it again.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_stop`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Doc E1743 update issues with Sonoff dongle
Since https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/11473 has been open for a while and has no current path to a fix, at least unblock people.

docs/devices/E1743.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E1743 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1743 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1743

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1743  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI ON/OFF switch |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1743](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1743.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```


### Pairing
Pair the switch to Zigbee2MQTT by pressing the pair button (found under the back cover next to the battery)
4 times in a row. The red light on the front side should flash a few times and then turn off
(it's more visible to see the light from the back). After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate.
When connected, the light turns off.

### Troubleshooting: Device didn't respond to OTA request
To resolve the `Device didn't respond to OTA request` error, you can try to push a button on it, shortly before you start the update, to wake up the remote. Sometimes it also helps keeping the device awake, by pushing a button repeatedly until you read the first "Updating... 0.00%" message (about 5s).

If your main ZigBee coordinator is a SONOFF Zigbee 3.0 USB Dongle Plus, you may experience issues updating the firmware. To work around this, unpair the switch (hit delete, then quickly follow the pairing instructions), re-pair through a router, then re-attempt the OTA update. See [this issue](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/11473) for more details.

### Binding
The [binding](../guide/usage/binding.md) functionallity of this remote varies per firmware version:
- below 2.3.075: suppports binding to groups only. It can only be bound to 1 group at a time. By default this remote is bound to the default bind group which you first have to unbind it from. This can be done by sending to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/device/unbind` payload `{"from": "DEVICE_FRIENDLY_NAME", "to": "default_bind_group"}`. Wake up the device right before sending the commands by pressing a button on it.
- 2.3.075 and greater: supports binding to devices only

### Battery Replacement
After replacing the battery, reporting of battery % may not work. If you experience this issue, remove the device and join it again.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_stop`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
