docs/devices/E1746.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E1746 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1746 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1746

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1746  |
| Vendor  | IKEA  |
| Description | TRADFRI signal repeater |
| Exposes | linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1746](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1746.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Push the reset button of the device with a paperclip for 5 seconds.
While pairing the LED is flashing/dimming slowly. Once the pairing is finished, the LED stays on.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update E1746.md (#1614)
Note added about making shure to press the reset button.

docs/devices/E1746.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E1746 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1746 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1746

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1746  |
| Vendor  | IKEA  |
| Description | TRADFRI signal repeater |
| Exposes | linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1746](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1746.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Push the reset button of the device with a paperclip for 5 seconds.
While pairing the LED is flashing/dimming slowly. Once the pairing is finished, the LED stays on.

**NOTE:** If you have trouble pairing the device, make sure you really press the reset button. It is quite easy to "miss" the reset Button through the little hole in the case. Try a paperclip with thin enough wire and "feel" for the button.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
