docs/devices/E1766.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E1766 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1766 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-11-09T18:37:38Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1766

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1766  |
| Vendor  | IKEA  |
| Description | TRADFRI open/close remote |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1766](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1766.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```


### Pairing
Pair the switch to Zigbee2MQTT by pressing the pair button (found under the back cover next to the battery)
4 times in a row. The red light on the front side should flash a few times and then turn off
(it's more visible to see the light from the back). After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate.
When connected, the light turns off.

### Binding
The [binding](../guide/usage/binding.md) functionallity of this remote varies per firmware version:
- below 2.3.075: suppports binding to groups only. It can only be bound to 1 group at a time. By default this remote is bound to the default bind group which you first have to unbind it from. This can be done by sending to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/device/unbind` payload `{"from": "DEVICE_FRIENDLY_NAME", "to": "default_bind_group"}`. Wake up the device right before sending the commands by pressing a button on it.
- 2.3.075 and greater: supports binding to devices only

### Starting OTA updates
Press the button on it right before hitting the update button in Z2MA, and again every second or two for about 5 seconds until upgrade begin.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `close`, `open`, `stop`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update Ikea open/close remote documentation (#1704)
* Update Ikea open/close remote documentation

* Update E1766.md

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/E1766.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E1766 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1766 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-11-09T18:37:38Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1766

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1766  |
| Vendor  | IKEA  |
| Description | TRADFRI open/close remote |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1766](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1766.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```

### Pairing
Pair the switch to Zigbee2MQTT by pressing the pair button (found under the back cover next to the battery)
4 times in a row. The red light on the front side should flash a few times and then turn off
(it's more visible to see the light from the back). After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate.
When connected, the light turns off.

### Actions
A `close` or `open` action is triggered when the corresponding button is pressed. 
If subsequently held down for > 0.5s, a `stop` action is triggered upon release.

### Binding
The [binding](../guide/usage/binding.md) functionallity of this remote varies per firmware version:
- below 2.3.075: suppports binding to groups only. It can only be bound to 1 group at a time. By default this remote is bound to the default bind group which you first have to unbind it from. This can be done by sending to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/device/unbind` payload `{"from": "DEVICE_FRIENDLY_NAME", "to": "default_bind_group"}`. Wake up the device right before sending the commands by pressing a button on it.
- 2.3.075 and greater: supports binding to devices only

### Starting OTA updates
Press the button on it right before hitting the update button in Z2MA, and again every second or two for about 5 seconds until upgrade begin.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `close`, `open`, `stop`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
