docs/devices/E1812.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E1812 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1812 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-11-09T17:45:58Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1812

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1812  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI shortcut button |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1812](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1812.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Pair the remote to Zigbee2MQTT by holding it close to the coordinator and
pressing the inside button, next to the CR2032 battery, 4 times.
The red light on the (front of the) remote will now flash a few times.

### Troubleshooting: Device didn't respond to OTA request
To resolve the `Device didn't respond to OTA request` error, you can try to push a button on it, shortly before you start the update, to wake up the Remote. Sometimes it also helps keeping the device awake, by pushing a button repeatedly until you read the first "Updating... 0.00%" message (about 5s).

### Binding
The [binding](../guide/usage/binding.md) functionallity of this remote varies per firmware version:
- below 2.3.75: suppports binding to groups only. It can only be bound to 1 group at a time. By default this remote is bound to the default bind group which you first have to unbind it from. This can be done by sending to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/device/unbind` payload `{"from": "DEVICE_FRIENDLY_NAME", "to": "default_bind_group"}`. Wake up the device right before sending the commands by pressing a button on it.
- 2.3.075 and greater: supports binding to devices only

### Troubleshooting: no battery level
It may help to remove the battery for a few seconds and after that reconfigure it via [Configure](../guide/usage/mqtt_topics_and_messages.md#zigbee2mqttbridgeconfigure). Right before executing the Configure make sure to wake up the device by pressing a button on it.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_stop`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update E1812.md (#2025)
* add note for double-click action

* update note for double-click action

docs/devices/E1812.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E1812 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1812 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-11-09T17:45:58Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E1812

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E1812  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI shortcut button |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1812](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E1812.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Pair the remote to Zigbee2MQTT by holding it close to the coordinator and
pressing the inside button, next to the CR2032 battery, 4 times.
The red light on the (front of the) remote will now flash a few times.

### Troubleshooting: Device didn't respond to OTA request
To resolve the `Device didn't respond to OTA request` error, you can try to push a button on it, shortly before you start the update, to wake up the Remote. Sometimes it also helps keeping the device awake, by pushing a button repeatedly until you read the first "Updating... 0.00%" message (about 5s).

### Binding
The [binding](../guide/usage/binding.md) functionallity of this remote varies per firmware version:
- below 2.3.75: suppports binding to groups only. It can only be bound to 1 group at a time. By default this remote is bound to the default bind group which you first have to unbind it from. This can be done by sending to `zigbee2mqtt/bridge/request/device/unbind` payload `{"from": "DEVICE_FRIENDLY_NAME", "to": "default_bind_group"}`. Wake up the device right before sending the commands by pressing a button on it.
- 2.3.075 and greater: supports binding to devices only

### Troubleshooting: no battery level
It may help to remove the battery for a few seconds and after that reconfigure it via [Configure](../guide/usage/mqtt_topics_and_messages.md#zigbee2mqttbridgeconfigure). Right before executing the Configure make sure to wake up the device by pressing a button on it.

### Actions
Value `off` is published when double-clicking the button.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_stop`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
