docs/devices/E2007.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E2007 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2007 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-09-29T21:38:40Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2007

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2007  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | STARKVIND air purifier |
| Exposes | fan (state, mode), fan_speed, pm25, air_quality, led_enable, child_lock, replace_filter, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2007](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2007.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `pm25_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for pm25, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `pm25_calibration`: Calibrates the pm25 value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Fan 
The current state of this fan is in the published state under the `fan_state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this fan publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"fan_state": "ON"}` or `{"fan_state": "OFF"}`.
To read the current state of this fan publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"fan_state": ""}`.
To change the mode publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"fan_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` can be: `off`, `auto`, `1`, `2`, `3`, `4`, `5`, `6`, `7`, `8`, `9`.

### Fan_speed (numeric)
Current fan speed.
Value can be found in the published state on the `fan_speed` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"fan_speed": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `9`.

### Pm25 (numeric)
Measured PM2.5 (particulate matter) concentration.
Value can be found in the published state on the `pm25` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"pm25": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `µg/m³`.

### Air_quality (enum)
Measured air quality.
Value can be found in the published state on the `air_quality` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"air_quality": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `excellent`, `good`, `moderate`, `poor`, `unhealthy`, `hazardous`, `out_of_range`, `unknown`.

### Led_enable (binary)
Enabled LED.
Value can be found in the published state on the `led_enable` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"led_enable": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_enable": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` led_enable is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Child_lock (binary)
Enables/disables physical input on the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `LOCK` child_lock is ON, if `UNLOCK` OFF.

### Replace_filter (binary)
Filter is older than 6 months and needs replacing.
Value can be found in the published state on the `replace_filter` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"replace_filter": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` replace_filter is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update zigbee-herdsman-converters to 15.13.1

docs/devices/E2007.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E2007 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2007 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-09-29T21:38:40Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2007

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2007  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | STARKVIND air purifier |
| Exposes | fan (state, mode), fan_speed, pm25, air_quality, led_enable, child_lock, replace_filter, filter_age, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2007](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2007.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `pm25_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for pm25, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `pm25_calibration`: Calibrates the pm25 value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Fan 
The current state of this fan is in the published state under the `fan_state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this fan publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"fan_state": "ON"}` or `{"fan_state": "OFF"}`.
To read the current state of this fan publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"fan_state": ""}`.
To change the mode publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"fan_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` can be: `off`, `auto`, `1`, `2`, `3`, `4`, `5`, `6`, `7`, `8`, `9`.

### Fan_speed (numeric)
Current fan speed.
Value can be found in the published state on the `fan_speed` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"fan_speed": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `9`.

### Pm25 (numeric)
Measured PM2.5 (particulate matter) concentration.
Value can be found in the published state on the `pm25` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"pm25": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `µg/m³`.

### Air_quality (enum)
Measured air quality.
Value can be found in the published state on the `air_quality` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"air_quality": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `excellent`, `good`, `moderate`, `poor`, `unhealthy`, `hazardous`, `out_of_range`, `unknown`.

### Led_enable (binary)
Enabled LED.
Value can be found in the published state on the `led_enable` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"led_enable": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_enable": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` led_enable is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Child_lock (binary)
Enables/disables physical input on the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `child_lock` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `LOCK` child_lock is ON, if `UNLOCK` OFF.

### Replace_filter (binary)
Filter is older than 6 months and needs replacing.
Value can be found in the published state on the `replace_filter` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"replace_filter": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` replace_filter is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Filter_age (numeric)
Time the filter has been used in minutes.
Value can be found in the published state on the `filter_age` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"filter_age": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
