docs/devices/E2001_E2002.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E2001/E2002 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2001/E2002 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-07-01T18:17:29Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2001/E2002

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2001/E2002  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | STYRBAR remote control |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2001/E2002](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2001-E2002.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing

Pair the switch to Zigbee2MQTT by pressing the pair button (found under the back cover next to the battery) 4 times in a row within 5 seconds. The red light on the side should flash a few times and then turn off. After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate. When connected, the light turns off.

### Button -> `action` mapping

|Icon|Action|Exposed Action
|-----|-----|-----|
|Light large ( top )|push|on
|Light large ( top )|hold|brightness_move_up
|Light large ( top )|release|brightness_stop
|-----|-----|-----|
|Light small ( bottom )|push|off
|Light small ( bottom )|hold|brightness_move_down
|Light small ( bottom )|release|brightness_stop
|-----|-----|-----|
|Arrow left|push|arrow_left_click
|Arrow left|hold|arrow_left_hold
|Arrow left|release|arrow_left_release
|-----|-----|-----|
|Arrow right|push|arrow_right_click
|Arrow right|hold|arrow_right_hold
|Arrow right|release|arrow_right_release

For the arrow buttons it seems that the hold/move action takes a bit longer to be send.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_stop`, `arrow_left_click`, `arrow_right_click`, `arrow_left_hold`, `arrow_right_hold`, `arrow_left_release`, `arrow_right_release`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

improves IKEA E2001_E2002 pairing instructions
For me pairing would only work when "spamming" the pair button multiple (more than 4) times. Based on [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/tradfri/comments/qjp3id/comment/hje4uoj/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3) reddit comment, 6-7 should be enough but the remote enters pairing mode regardless of how many times you press past the "correct" amount, hence me recommanding 10.

I don't know if this is model or firmware dependent which is why I left the original instructions as there might be devices where only those work.

docs/devices/E2001_E2002.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E2001/E2002 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2001/E2002 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-07-01T18:17:29Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2001/E2002

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2001/E2002  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | STYRBAR remote control |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2001/E2002](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2001-E2002.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing

Pair the switch to Zigbee2MQTT by pressing the pair button (found under the back cover next to the battery) 4 times in a row within 5 seconds. If this doesn't work, try pressing the pair button up to 10 times in very quick succession. The red light on the side should flash a few times and then turn off. After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate. When connected, the light turns off.

### Button -> `action` mapping

|Icon|Action|Exposed Action
|-----|-----|-----|
|Light large ( top )|push|on
|Light large ( top )|hold|brightness_move_up
|Light large ( top )|release|brightness_stop
|-----|-----|-----|
|Light small ( bottom )|push|off
|Light small ( bottom )|hold|brightness_move_down
|Light small ( bottom )|release|brightness_stop
|-----|-----|-----|
|Arrow left|push|arrow_left_click
|Arrow left|hold|arrow_left_hold
|Arrow left|release|arrow_left_release
|-----|-----|-----|
|Arrow right|push|arrow_right_click
|Arrow right|hold|arrow_right_hold
|Arrow right|release|arrow_right_release

For the arrow buttons it seems that the hold/move action takes a bit longer to be send.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_stop`, `arrow_left_click`, `arrow_right_click`, `arrow_left_hold`, `arrow_right_hold`, `arrow_left_release`, `arrow_right_release`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
