docs/devices/E2134.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E2134 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2134 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-11-30T19:41:12
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2134

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2134  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | VALLHORN wireless motion sensor |
| Exposes | occupancy, battery, illuminance, illuminance_lux, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2134](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2134.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `illuminance_calibration`: Calibrates the illuminance value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `illuminance_lux_calibration`: Calibrates the illuminance_lux value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `no_occupancy_since`: Sends a message after the last time no occupancy (occupancy: false) was detected. When setting this for example to [10, 60] a `{"no_occupancy_since": 10}` will be send after 10 seconds and a `{"no_occupancy_since": 60}` after 60 seconds. The value must be a list of [object Object].


## Exposes

### Occupancy (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected occupancy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `occupancy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` occupancy is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Illuminance (numeric)
Raw measured illuminance.
Value can be found in the published state on the `illuminance` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Illuminance (lux) (numeric)
Measured illuminance in lux.
Value can be found in the published state on the `illuminance_lux` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `lx`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update E2134.md (#2462)
add pairing informations

docs/devices/E2134.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E2134 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2134 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-11-30T19:41:12
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2134

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2134  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | VALLHORN wireless motion sensor |
| Exposes | occupancy, battery, illuminance, illuminance_lux, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2134](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2134.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Pair the sensor to Zigbee2MQTT by long pressing the pair button for more than 10 seconds.
The red light on the front side should flash a few times and then turn off. If the light red light does not show up and batteries are OK, try pressing the pair button 4 short times.
After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate. When connected, the light turns off.


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `illuminance_calibration`: Calibrates the illuminance value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `illuminance_lux_calibration`: Calibrates the illuminance_lux value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `no_occupancy_since`: Sends a message after the last time no occupancy (occupancy: false) was detected. When setting this for example to [10, 60] a `{"no_occupancy_since": 10}` will be send after 10 seconds and a `{"no_occupancy_since": 60}` after 60 seconds. The value must be a list of [object Object].


## Exposes

### Occupancy (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected occupancy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `occupancy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` occupancy is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Illuminance (numeric)
Raw measured illuminance.
Value can be found in the published state on the `illuminance` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Illuminance (lux) (numeric)
Measured illuminance in lux.
Value can be found in the published state on the `illuminance_lux` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `lx`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
