docs/devices/E2202.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E2202 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2202 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2024-03-31T18:43:56
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2202

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2202  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | Water leakage detection sensor |
| Exposes | water_leak, battery_low, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2202](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2202.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Water leak (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected a water leak.
Value can be found in the published state on the `water_leak` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` water leak is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery low (binary)
Indicates whether the battery of the device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update E2202.md - Pairing section added (#2672)

docs/devices/E2202.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E2202 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2202 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2024-03-31T18:43:56
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2202

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2202  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | Water leakage detection sensor |
| Exposes | water_leak, battery_low, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2202](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2202.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
Pair the switch to Zigbee2MQTT by pressing the pair button (found under the front cover next to the battery)
4 times in a row. The red light on the front side should flash a few times and then turn off. 
After a few seconds it turns back on and pulsate.
When connected, the light turns off.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Water leak (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected a water leak.
Value can be found in the published state on the `water_leak` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` water leak is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery low (binary)
Indicates whether the battery of the device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
