docs/devices/E2213.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E2213 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2213 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-12-26T18:35:42
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2213

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2213  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | SOMRIG shortcut button |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2213](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2213.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Pair the remote to Zigbee2MQTT by holding it close to the coordinator and
pressing the inside button 4 times.
The red light on the (front of the) remote will now flash a few times.

### Troubleshooting: Device didn't respond to OTA request
To resolve the `Device didn't respond to OTA request` error, you can try to push a button on it, shortly before you start the update, to wake up the Remote. Sometimes it also helps keeping the device awake, by pushing a button repeatedly until you read the first "Updating... 0.00%" message (about 5s).
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `dots_1_initial_press`, `dots_2_initial_press`, `dots_1_long_press`, `dots_2_long_press`, `dots_1_short_release`, `dots_2_short_release`, `dots_1_long_release`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

added printing template to E2213.md (#2452)

docs/devices/E2213.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E2213 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2213 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-12-26T18:35:42
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2213

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2213  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | SOMRIG shortcut button |
| Exposes | battery, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2213](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2213.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Printing Template
Template to print own covers is provided [here](https://github.com/thatslolo/IKEA-SOMRIG-template).

### Pairing
Pair the remote to Zigbee2MQTT by holding it close to the coordinator and
pressing the inside button 4 times.
The red light on the (front of the) remote will now flash a few times.

### Troubleshooting: Device didn't respond to OTA request
To resolve the `Device didn't respond to OTA request` error, you can try to push a button on it, shortly before you start the update, to wake up the Remote. Sometimes it also helps keeping the device awake, by pushing a button repeatedly until you read the first "Updating... 0.00%" message (about 5s).
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `dots_1_initial_press`, `dots_2_initial_press`, `dots_1_long_press`, `dots_2_long_press`, `dots_1_short_release`, `dots_2_short_release`, `dots_1_long_release`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
