docs/devices/FB20-002.md, before:

---
title: "Lidl FB20-002 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl FB20-002 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-12-01T19:02:25Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl FB20-002

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | FB20-002  |
| Vendor  | [Lidl](/supported-devices/#v=Lidl)  |
| Description | Livarno Lux switch and dimming light remote control |
| Exposes | action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl FB20-002](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/FB20-002.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing

Hold the top 2 buttons (on and off) for about 5 seconds until the LED goes from solid green to blinking, then let go.

For more information, refer to the [LIDL manual](https://www.lidl-service.com/static/5027306530/334437_Zigbee_OS_DE_EN%20_FR_NL_PL_CS_SK.PDF).
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_stop`, `brightness_step_up`, `brightness_step_down`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

On Button note for FB20-002 (#2810)

docs/devices/FB20-002.md, after:

---
title: "Lidl FB20-002 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl FB20-002 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-12-01T19:02:25Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl FB20-002

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | FB20-002  |
| Vendor  | [Lidl](/supported-devices/#v=Lidl)  |
| Description | Livarno Lux switch and dimming light remote control |
| Exposes | action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl FB20-002](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/FB20-002.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing

Hold the top 2 buttons (on and off) for about 5 seconds until the LED goes from solid green to blinking, then let go.

For more information, refer to the [LIDL manual](https://www.lidl-service.com/static/5027306530/334437_Zigbee_OS_DE_EN%20_FR_NL_PL_CS_SK.PDF).

### On Button

The "On" button sends the event only once. The remote remembers the last pressed button and ignores all consequent button presses. More info on the [issue](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/6509).
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_stop`, `brightness_step_up`, `brightness_step_down`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
