docs/devices/HG06668.md, before:

---
title: "Lidl HG06668 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl HG06668 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-01-31T22:24:43Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl HG06668

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HG06668  |
| Vendor  | Lidl  |
| Description | Silvercrest smart wireless door bell button |
| Exposes | battery, action, battery_low, tamper, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl HG06668](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HG06668.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `pressed`.

### Battery_low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery_low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Tamper (binary)
Indicates whether the device is tampered.
Value can be found in the published state on the `tamper` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` tamper is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Added pairing instructions (#1676)
Almost re-paired all devices after changing channel and network key... new network is stable. Hope someone reads this page one day ;-)

docs/devices/HG06668.md, after:

---
title: "Lidl HG06668 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl HG06668 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-01-31T22:24:43Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl HG06668

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HG06668  |
| Vendor  | Lidl  |
| Description | Silvercrest smart wireless door bell button |
| Exposes | battery, action, battery_low, tamper, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl HG06668](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HG06668.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->

## Notes

### Pairing
Push the reset button on the back of the device 3 times close to the coordinator. The blue LED on the back of the device will start to flash quickly. Once the pairing is finished, the LED turns off.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `pressed`.

### Battery_low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery_low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Tamper (binary)
Indicates whether the device is tampered.
Value can be found in the published state on the `tamper` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` tamper is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
