docs/devices/HG06338.md, before:

---
title: "Lidl HG06338 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl HG06338 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-12-01T19:02:25Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl HG06338

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HG06338  |
| Vendor  | [Lidl](/supported-devices/#v=Lidl)  |
| Description | Silvercrest 3 gang switch, with 4 USB (EU, FR, CZ, BS) |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl HG06338](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HG06338.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Factory reset the 3 gang switch by holding the power button for 5 seconds.
When you let go of the button an LED should blink.
After resetting the 3 gang switch will automatically connect.

While pairing, keep the 3 gang switch close to the adapter.

### Node-Red
How to use the connector strip with Node-Red: Use the "command node" of the node-red-contrib-zigbee-package. Drop-down-lists are helping you with the configuration.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch (l1 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l1` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l1": ""}`.

### Switch (l2 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l2` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l2": ""}`.

### Switch (l3 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l3` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l3": "ON"}`, `{"state_l3": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l3": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l3": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update zigbee-herdsman-converters to 15.0.38

docs/devices/HG06338.md, after:

---
title: "Lidl HG06338 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl HG06338 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-12-01T19:02:25Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl HG06338

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HG06338  |
| Vendor  | [Lidl](/supported-devices/#v=Lidl)  |
| Description | Silvercrest 3 gang switch, with 4 USB (EU, FR, CZ, BS) |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl HG06338](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HG06338.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Factory reset the 3 gang switch by holding the power button for 5 seconds.
When you let go of the button an LED should blink.
After resetting the 3 gang switch will automatically connect.

While pairing, keep the 3 gang switch close to the adapter.

### Node-Red
How to use the connector strip with Node-Red: Use the "command node" of the node-red-contrib-zigbee-package. Drop-down-lists are helping you with the configuration.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch (l1 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l1` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l1": ""}`.

### Switch (l2 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l2` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l2": ""}`.

### Switch (l3 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l3` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l3": "ON"}`, `{"state_l3": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l3": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l3": ""}`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
