docs/devices/HG08164.md, before:

---
title: "Lidl HG08164 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl HG08164 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-03-31T18:55:00
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl HG08164

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HG08164  |
| Vendor  | [Lidl](/supported-devices/#v=Lidl)  |
| Description | Silvercrest smart button |
| Exposes | action, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl HG08164](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HG08164.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Battery value
If battery value is not showing in Zigbee2MQTT briefly pressing reset button AFTER device is fully paired usually resolves the issue.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_stop`, `brightness_step_up`, `brightness_step_down`, `single`, `double`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update HG08164.md to include pairing instructions

docs/devices/HG08164.md, after:

---
title: "Lidl HG08164 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl HG08164 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-03-31T18:55:00
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl HG08164

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HG08164  |
| Vendor  | [Lidl](/supported-devices/#v=Lidl)  |
| Description | Silvercrest smart button |
| Exposes | action, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl HG08164](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HG08164.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing

1. Remove the battery compartmet cover on the back of the device (you may need to use a flat-head screw driver).
2. Press and hold the reset button for 6 seconds. The device enters pairing mode. The LED in the front blinks to indicate that.
3. Pairing happens automatically if zigbee2mqtt is accepting new devices.

### Battery value
If battery value is not showing in Zigbee2MQTT briefly pressing reset button AFTER device is fully paired usually resolves the issue.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_stop`, `brightness_step_up`, `brightness_step_down`, `single`, `double`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
