docs/devices/HG08673.md, before:

---
title: "Lidl HG08673 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl HG08673 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-09-30T20:52:51
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl HG08673

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HG08673  |
| Vendor  | [Lidl](/supported-devices/#v=Lidl)  |
| Description | Silvercrest smart plug with power monitoring (EU, FR) |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_outage_memory, indicator_mode, power, current, voltage, energy, lock (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl HG08673](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HG08673.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `measurement_poll_interval`: Only the energy value is polled for this device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `-1`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Power_outage_memory (enum)
Recover state after power outage.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_memory` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `restore`.

### Indicator_mode (enum)
LED indicator mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `indicator_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"indicator_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"indicator_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `off/on`, `on/off`, `on`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add note about energy reset and pairing on HG08673 (#1779)

docs/devices/HG08673.md, after:

---
title: "Lidl HG08673 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Lidl HG08673 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-09-30T20:52:51
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Lidl HG08673

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HG08673  |
| Vendor  | [Lidl](/supported-devices/#v=Lidl)  |
| Description | Silvercrest smart plug with power monitoring (EU, FR) |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_outage_memory, indicator_mode, power, current, voltage, energy, lock (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Lidl HG08673](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HG08673.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Reset energy

To reset `Sum of consumed energy`, use the Dev console and execute:  
`Endpoint`: `1`   
`Cluster`: `0x00`  
`Command`: `0`  
`Payload`: (don't change this)  

Next time the plug gets polled, `Sum of consumed energy` will start from zero again.

### Pairing
Perform a factory reset by holding down the switch on the plug continuously for 5 seconds.
The LED will start blinking and the device will enter pairing mode.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `measurement_poll_interval`: Only the energy value is polled for this device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `-1`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Power_outage_memory (enum)
Recover state after power outage.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_memory` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `restore`.

### Indicator_mode (enum)
LED indicator mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `indicator_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"indicator_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"indicator_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `off/on`, `on/off`, `on`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
