docs/devices/HS3AQ.md, before:

---
title: "HEIMAN HS3AQ control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your HEIMAN HS3AQ via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-08-01T15:06:58
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# HEIMAN HS3AQ

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HS3AQ  |
| Vendor  | [HEIMAN](/supported-devices/#v=HEIMAN)  |
| Description | Smart air quality monitor |
| Exposes | co2, battery, humidity, temperature, linkquality |
| Picture | ![HEIMAN HS3AQ](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HS3AQ.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Co2 (numeric)
The measured CO2 (carbon dioxide) value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `co2` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `ppm`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update HS3AQ.md (#1888)
Based off of user report on Discord

> furthermore, the manufacturer has 3 different manuals:
> 
> HS3AQ, no zigbee: https://www.heimantech.com/manual/?type=detail&id=51
> HS3AQ-TY(ZTU) zigbee: https://www.heimantech.com/manual/?type=detail&id=50
> HS3AQ-EFA zigbee: https://www.heimantech.com/manual/?type=detail&id=49

docs/devices/HS3AQ.md, after:

---
title: "HEIMAN HS3AQ control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your HEIMAN HS3AQ via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-08-01T15:06:58
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# HEIMAN HS3AQ

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | HS3AQ  |
| Vendor  | [HEIMAN](/supported-devices/#v=HEIMAN)  |
| Description | Smart air quality monitor |
| Exposes | co2, battery, humidity, temperature, linkquality |
| Picture | ![HEIMAN HS3AQ](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/HS3AQ.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->

## Notes

The base HS3AQ model does not have Zigbee, the Zigbee versions of this device are HS3AQ-TY(ZTU) and HS3AQ-EFA

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Co2 (numeric)
The measured CO2 (carbon dioxide) value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `co2` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `ppm`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
