docs/devices/L2207.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA L2207 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA L2207 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2024-01-31T20:08:01
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA L2207

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | L2207  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | JETSTRÖM LED ceiling light panel, smart dimmable/white spectrum, 60x60 cm |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, color_temp, color_temp_startup), effect, power_on_behavior, color_options, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA L2207](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/L2207.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `color_sync`: When enabled colors will be synced, e.g. if the light supports both color x/y and color temperature a conversion from color x/y to color temperature will be done when setting the x/y color (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `color_temp`, `color_temp_startup`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.
- `color_temp`: To control the color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `250` and `454`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`.
- `color_temp_startup`: To set the startup color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `250` and `454`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the startup color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`, `previous`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the light will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the light firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
  "color_temp_move": 60, // Starts moving color temperature up at 60 units per second
  "color_temp_move": "stop", // Stop moving color temperature
  "color_temp_step": 99, // Increase color temperature by 99
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss. If you get an `UNSUPPORTED_ATTRIBUTE` error, the device does not support it..
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Color options (composite)
Advanced color behavior.
Can be set by publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_options": {"execute_if_off": VALUE}}`
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_options": ""}`.
- `execute_if_off` (binary): Controls whether color and color temperature can be set while light is off allowed values: `true` or `false`

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add pairing instructions to L2207 (#2693)
See the Ikea manual as reference: https://www.ikea.com/nl/en/manuals/jetstrom-led-ceiling-light-panel-smart-dimmable-white-spectrum__AA-2407813-1-100.pdf

Let me know if this has the right format in markdown.

docs/devices/L2207.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA L2207 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA L2207 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2024-01-31T20:08:01
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA L2207

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | L2207  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | JETSTRÖM LED ceiling light panel, smart dimmable/white spectrum, 60x60 cm |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, color_temp, color_temp_startup), effect, power_on_behavior, color_options, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA L2207](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/L2207.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Pairing

1. Take off the cover of the light panel
2. Press the reset button on the controller using a small pin (for example a sim tool) until it starts flashing
3. The device is now in pairing mode and should be found by Zigbee2MQTT

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `color_sync`: When enabled colors will be synced, e.g. if the light supports both color x/y and color temperature a conversion from color x/y to color temperature will be done when setting the x/y color (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `color_temp`, `color_temp_startup`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.
- `color_temp`: To control the color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `250` and `454`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`.
- `color_temp_startup`: To set the startup color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `250` and `454`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the startup color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`, `previous`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the light will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the light firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
  "color_temp_move": 60, // Starts moving color temperature up at 60 units per second
  "color_temp_move": "stop", // Stop moving color temperature
  "color_temp_step": 99, // Increase color temperature by 99
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss. If you get an `UNSUPPORTED_ATTRIBUTE` error, the device does not support it..
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Color options (composite)
Advanced color behavior.
Can be set by publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_options": {"execute_if_off": VALUE}}`
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_options": ""}`.
- `execute_if_off` (binary): Controls whether color and color temperature can be set while light is off allowed values: `true` or `false`

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
