docs/devices/LED1624G9.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA LED1624G9 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA LED1624G9 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-10-30T12:58:50
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA LED1624G9

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | LED1624G9  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI LED bulb E14/E26/E27 600 lumen, dimmable, color, opal white |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, color_temp, color_xy), effect, power_on_behavior, color_options, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA LED1624G9](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/LED1624G9.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Light not turning off
When the light is in a transition (e.g. by sending `{"brightness": 20, "transition": 5}`) the bulb may not turn off via `{"state": "OFF"}`. You have to wait until the transition completes. This is a [bug](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/4963#issuecomment-755456697) in the firmware of the light.


### Pairing
Factory reset the light bulb ([video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=npxOrPxVfe0)).
After resetting the bulb will automatically connect.

While pairing, keep the bulb close to the coordinator (adapter).

What works is to use (very) short “on’s” and a little bit longer “off’s”, where you kill the light as soon as the bulb shows signs of turning on.
Start with bulb on, then off, and then 6 “on’s”, wait in the 6th ON state. (If you try play safe and go for 7 "on's" the reset sometimes fails.)
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `color_sync`: When enabled colors will be synced, e.g. if the light supports both color x/y and color temperature a conversion from color x/y to color temperature will be done when setting the x/y color (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `color_temp`, `color_xy`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.
- `color_temp`: To control the color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `250` and `454`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`.
- `color_xy`: To control the XY color (CIE 1931 color space) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color": {"x": X_VALUE, "y": Y_VALUE}}` (e.g. `{"color":{"x":0.123,"y":0.123}}`). To read the XY color send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color":{"x":"","y":""}}`. Alternatively it is possible to set the XY color via RGB:
  - `{"color": {"r": R, "g": G, "b": B}}` e.g. `{"color":{"r":46,"g":102,"b":150}}`
  - `{"color": {"rgb": "R,G,B"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"rgb":"46,102,150"}}`
  - `{"color": {"hex": HEX}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hex":"#547CFF"}}`

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
  "color_temp_move": 60, // Starts moving color temperature up at 60 units per second
  "color_temp_move": "stop", // Stop moving color temperature
  "color_temp_step": 99, // Increase color temperature by 99
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Color options (composite)
Advanced color behavior.
Can be set by publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_options": {"execute_if_off": VALUE}}`
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_options": ""}`.
- `execute_if_off` (binary): Controls whether color and color temperature can be set while light is off allowed values: `true` or `false`

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update LED1624G9.md (#2257)
Describes issue regarding minimal brightness when coming from OFF-state

docs/devices/LED1624G9.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA LED1624G9 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA LED1624G9 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-10-30T12:58:50
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA LED1624G9

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | LED1624G9  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | TRADFRI LED bulb E14/E26/E27 600 lumen, dimmable, color, opal white |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, color_temp, color_xy), effect, power_on_behavior, color_options, linkquality |
| Picture | ![IKEA LED1624G9](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/LED1624G9.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Light not turning off
When the light is in a transition (e.g. by sending `{"brightness": 20, "transition": 5}`) the bulb may not turn off via `{"state": "OFF"}`. You have to wait until the transition completes. This is a [bug](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/4963#issuecomment-755456697) in the firmware of the light.

### Light not turning on
When turning on the light with brightness 1 (e.g. by sending `{"brightness" : 1}`), the bulb flashes on for a fraction of a second but turns off immediately after. This can be worked around by first sending `{"state": "ON"}` followed by a second message setting the brightness `{"brightness" : 1}` or by limiting your brightness to a minimum of 2.


### Pairing
Factory reset the light bulb ([video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=npxOrPxVfe0)).
After resetting the bulb will automatically connect.

While pairing, keep the bulb close to the coordinator (adapter).

What works is to use (very) short “on’s” and a little bit longer “off’s”, where you kill the light as soon as the bulb shows signs of turning on.
Start with bulb on, then off, and then 6 “on’s”, wait in the 6th ON state. (If you try play safe and go for 7 "on's" the reset sometimes fails.)
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `color_sync`: When enabled colors will be synced, e.g. if the light supports both color x/y and color temperature a conversion from color x/y to color temperature will be done when setting the x/y color (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `color_temp`, `color_xy`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.
- `color_temp`: To control the color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `250` and `454`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warm`, `warmest`.
- `color_xy`: To control the XY color (CIE 1931 color space) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color": {"x": X_VALUE, "y": Y_VALUE}}` (e.g. `{"color":{"x":0.123,"y":0.123}}`). To read the XY color send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color":{"x":"","y":""}}`. Alternatively it is possible to set the XY color via RGB:
  - `{"color": {"r": R, "g": G, "b": B}}` e.g. `{"color":{"r":46,"g":102,"b":150}}`
  - `{"color": {"rgb": "R,G,B"}}` e.g. `{"color":{"rgb":"46,102,150"}}`
  - `{"color": {"hex": HEX}}` e.g. `{"color":{"hex":"#547CFF"}}`

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
  "color_temp_move": 60, // Starts moving color temperature up at 60 units per second
  "color_temp_move": "stop", // Stop moving color temperature
  "color_temp_step": 99, // Increase color temperature by 99
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Color options (composite)
Advanced color behavior.
Can be set by publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_options": {"execute_if_off": VALUE}}`
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_options": ""}`.
- `execute_if_off` (binary): Controls whether color and color temperature can be set while light is off allowed values: `true` or `false`

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
