docs/devices/LLKZMK11LM.md, before:

---
title: "Xiaomi LLKZMK11LM control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi LLKZMK11LM via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi LLKZMK11LM

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | LLKZMK11LM  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara wireless relay controller |
| Exposes | power, energy, device_temperature, voltage, current, switch (state), power_outage_count, power_outage_memory, interlock, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi LLKZMK11LM](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/LLKZMK11LM.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Interlock
This option allows to inter connect the relays which will make sure that only one relay is on at a time. To do this publish to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` payload `{"interlock": true}` or `{"interlock": false}`. By default this option is `false`.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Device_temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Switch (l1 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l1` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l1": ""}`.

### Switch (l2 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l2` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l2": ""}`.

### Power_outage_count (numeric)
Number of power outages.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_count` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Power_outage_memory (binary)
Enable/disable the power outage memory, this recovers the on/off mode after power failure.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_memory` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` power_outage_memory is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Interlock (binary)
Enabling prevents both relais being on at the same time.
Value can be found in the published state on the `interlock` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"interlock": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` interlock is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update LLKZMK11LM.md (#1913)
* Update LLKZMK11LM.md

Confirmed that binding is supported on this device.

* Update LLKZMK11LM.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/LLKZMK11LM.md, after:

---
title: "Xiaomi LLKZMK11LM control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi LLKZMK11LM via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi LLKZMK11LM

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | LLKZMK11LM  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara wireless relay controller |
| Exposes | power, energy, device_temperature, voltage, current, switch (state), power_outage_count, power_outage_memory, interlock, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi LLKZMK11LM](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/LLKZMK11LM.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Interlock
This option allows to inter connect the relays which will make sure that only one relay is on at a time. To do this publish to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` payload `{"interlock": true}` or `{"interlock": false}`. By default this option is `false`.

### Binding
The device allows zigbee [binding](../guide/usage/binding.html) for each individual channel.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).

## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Device_temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Switch (l1 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l1` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l1": ""}`.

### Switch (l2 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l2` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l2": ""}`.

### Power_outage_count (numeric)
Number of power outages.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_count` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Power_outage_memory (binary)
Enable/disable the power outage memory, this recovers the on/off mode after power failure.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_memory` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` power_outage_memory is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Interlock (binary)
Enabling prevents both relais being on at the same time.
Value can be found in the published state on the `interlock` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"interlock": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` interlock is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
