docs/devices/NLG-TW_light.md, before:

---
title: "Paul Neuhaus NLG-TW light control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Paul Neuhaus NLG-TW light via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-08-11T22:17:44Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Paul Neuhaus NLG-TW light

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | NLG-TW light  |
| Vendor  | [Paul Neuhaus](/supported-devices/#v=Paul%20Neuhaus)  |
| Description | Various tunable white lights (e.g. 8195-55) |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, color_temp, color_temp_startup), effect, power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Paul Neuhaus NLG-TW light](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/NLG-TW-light.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `color_sync`: When enabled colors will be synced, e.g. if the light supports both color x/y and color temperature a conversion from color x/y to color temperature will be done when setting the x/y color (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `color_temp`, `color_temp_startup`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.
- `color_temp`: To control the color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `153` and `370`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warmest`.
- `color_temp_startup`: To set the startup color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `153` and `370`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the startup color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warmest`, `previous`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the light will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the light firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
  "color_temp_move": 60, // Starts moving color temperature up at 60 units per second
  "color_temp_move": "stop", // Stop moving color temperature
  "color_temp_step": 99, // Increase color temperature by 99
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss. If you get an `UNSUPPORTED_ATTRIBUTE` error, the device does not support it..
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update NLG-TW_light.md with pairing information
Pairing information for Paul Neuhaus Q-lights added.
Two possibilities: Either via a Q-remote or via a switch sequence with a switch connected to the light.

docs/devices/NLG-TW_light.md, after:

---
title: "Paul Neuhaus NLG-TW light control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Paul Neuhaus NLG-TW light via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-08-11T22:17:44Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Paul Neuhaus NLG-TW light

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | NLG-TW light  |
| Vendor  | [Paul Neuhaus](/supported-devices/#v=Paul%20Neuhaus)  |
| Description | Various tunable white lights (e.g. 8195-55) |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, color_temp, color_temp_startup), effect, power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Paul Neuhaus NLG-TW light](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/NLG-TW-light.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Options
### Pairing
You can reset the light either with a Q-remote (recommended) or via a click sequence with a connected switch to the light. After the light has been resetted, it automatically starts the pairing process. This should be the same for all Paul Neuhaus Q-lights (though untested!).
#### Pairing with Q-remote
1. Hold the Q-remote VERY close to the light. The distance to the light's antenna must be less than 10cm.
2. Press the ON and OFF switch of the Q-remote simultaneously for more than 5 secondes.

The status LED of the Q-remote flashes once per second. After 5 seconds the (ceiling) light flashes multiple times to signal the successful reset. A new flash sequence signals the pairing process. If the flashing ends the light should be paired successfully.  
#### Pairing with a click sequence
I got the pairing right with this method once. However, it is extremley difficult to get the timing right. Therefore the pairing with the Q-remote is recommended.

1. Switch on the light for 5 to 10 seconds.
2. Switch off the light.
3. Switch on and off the light at least 4 times untill the light starts blinking several times. In this sequence assure to wait for 1-2 seconds between each new switch-on.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `transition`: Controls the transition time (in seconds) of on/off, brightness, color temperature (if applicable) and color (if applicable) changes. Defaults to `0` (no transition). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0`

* `color_sync`: When enabled colors will be synced, e.g. if the light supports both color x/y and color temperature a conversion from color x/y to color temperature will be done when setting the x/y color (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `color_temp`, `color_temp_startup`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.
- `color_temp`: To control the color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `153` and `370`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warmest`.
- `color_temp_startup`: To set the startup color temperature (in reciprocal megakelvin a.k.a. mired scale) publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `153` and `370`, the higher the warmer the color. To read the startup color temperature send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"color_temp_startup": ""}`. Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `coolest`, `cool`, `neutral`, `warmest`, `previous`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the light will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the light firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

#### Transition
For all of the above mentioned features it is possible to do a transition of the value over time. To do this add an additional property `transition` to the payload which is the transition time in seconds.
Examples: `{"brightness":156,"transition":3}`, `{"color_temp":241,"transition":1}`.

#### Moving/stepping
Instead of setting a value (e.g. brightness) directly it is also possible to:
- move: this will automatically move the value over time, to stop send value `stop` or `0`.
- step: this will increment/decrement the current value by the given one.

The direction of move and step can be either up or down, provide a negative value to move/step down, a positive value to move/step up.
To do this send a payload like below to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set`

**NOTE**: brightness move/step will stop at the minimum brightness and won't turn on the light when it's off. In this case use `brightness_move_onoff`/`brightness_step_onoff`
````js
{
  "brightness_move": -40, // Starts moving brightness down at 40 units per second
  "brightness_move": 0, // Stop moving brightness
  "brightness_step": 40 // Increases brightness by 40
  "color_temp_move": 60, // Starts moving color temperature up at 60 units per second
  "color_temp_move": "stop", // Stop moving color temperature
  "color_temp_step": 99, // Increase color temperature by 99
}
````

### Effect (enum)
Triggers an effect on the light (e.g. make light blink for a few seconds).
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"effect": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `blink`, `breathe`, `okay`, `channel_change`, `finish_effect`, `stop_effect`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss. If you get an `UNSUPPORTED_ATTRIBUTE` error, the device does not support it..
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
