docs/devices/PCI_E.md, before:

---
title: "WETEN PCI E control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your WETEN PCI E via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2024-01-31T20:08:00
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# WETEN PCI E

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | PCI E  |
| Vendor  | [WETEN](/supported-devices/#v=WETEN)  |
| Description | PC switch |
| Exposes | state, buzzer_feedback, lock (state), rf_pairing, linkquality |
| Picture | ![WETEN PCI E](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/PCI-E.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->




## Exposes

### State (binary)
PC Power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `state` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` state is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Buzzer feedback (binary)
ON means no buzzer noise.
Value can be found in the published state on the `buzzer_feedback` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"buzzer_feedback": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` buzzer feedback is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Child lock (lock)
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Rf pairing (binary)
Enables/disables RF 433 remote pairing mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `rf_pairing` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"rf_pairing": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` rf pairing is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update PCI_E.md with pairing instructions (#2551)
* Update PCI_E.md

Added pairing instructions

* Update PCI_E.md

Correct buzzer feedback info

docs/devices/PCI_E.md, after:

---
title: "WETEN PCI E control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your WETEN PCI E via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2024-01-31T20:08:00
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# WETEN PCI E

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | PCI E  |
| Vendor  | [WETEN](/supported-devices/#v=WETEN)  |
| Description | PC switch |
| Exposes | state, buzzer_feedback, lock (state), rf_pairing, linkquality |
| Picture | ![WETEN PCI E](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/PCI-E.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Long press the reset button for 5s until the LED indicator flashes three times, which means the device has entered pairing mode. If buzzer feedback is on then you'll also hear 3 short beeps.
The reset button can be found on the PCIe card.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->




## Exposes

### State (binary)
PC Power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `state` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` state is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Buzzer feedback (binary)
Enable buzzer feedback. It sounds on device actions like power state changes, child lock activation, etc.
Value can be found in the published state on the `buzzer_feedback` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"buzzer_feedback": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` buzzer feedback is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Child lock (lock)
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Rf pairing (binary)
Enables/disables RF 433 remote pairing mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `rf_pairing` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"rf_pairing": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` rf pairing is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
