docs/devices/QBKG03LM.md, before:

---
title: "Xiaomi QBKG03LM control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi QBKG03LM via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi QBKG03LM

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | QBKG03LM  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara double key wired wall switch without neutral wire. Doesn't work as a router and doesn't support power meter |
| Exposes | switch (state), device_temperature, action, operation_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi QBKG03LM](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/QBKG03LM.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```

### Debounce
It is recommended to not use the `debounce` option for this device since this will prevent the `single` and `hold_release` actions from being sent.

### Pairing
Press and hold the button on the device for +- 10 seconds
(until the blue light starts blinking and stops blinking), release and wait.

You may have to unpair the switch from an existing coordinator before the pairing process will start.
If you can't do this, try to remove battery (if it has one), push the button (to completely discharge device), place the battery back and try pairing again.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Switch (left endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_left` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_left": "ON"}`, `{"state_left": "OFF"}` or `{"state_left": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_left": ""}`.

### Switch (right endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_right` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_right": "ON"}`, `{"state_right": "OFF"}` or `{"state_right": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_right": ""}`.

### Device_temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `release_left`, `release_right`, `release_both`, `double_left`, `double_right`, `single_left`, `single_right`, `hold_release_left`, `hold_release_left`.

### Operation_mode (enum, left endpoint)
Operation mode for left button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode_left` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode_left": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_left_relay`, `control_right_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Operation_mode (enum, right endpoint)
Operation mode for right button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode_right` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode_right": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_left_relay`, `control_right_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

QBKG03/04LM router functionallity. https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/pull/1850

docs/devices/QBKG03LM.md, after:

---
title: "Xiaomi QBKG03LM control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi QBKG03LM via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-07-22T20:08:17Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi QBKG03LM

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | QBKG03LM  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara double key wired wall switch without neutral wire. Doesn't work as a router and doesn't support power meter |
| Exposes | switch (state), device_temperature, action, operation_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi QBKG03LM](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/QBKG03LM.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Router functionallity
This device **does not** work as a Zigbee router.

### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```

### Debounce
It is recommended to not use the `debounce` option for this device since this will prevent the `single` and `hold_release` actions from being sent.

### Pairing
Press and hold the button on the device for +- 10 seconds
(until the blue light starts blinking and stops blinking), release and wait.

You may have to unpair the switch from an existing coordinator before the pairing process will start.
If you can't do this, try to remove battery (if it has one), push the button (to completely discharge device), place the battery back and try pairing again.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Switch (left endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_left` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_left": "ON"}`, `{"state_left": "OFF"}` or `{"state_left": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_left": ""}`.

### Switch (right endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_right` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_right": "ON"}`, `{"state_right": "OFF"}` or `{"state_right": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_right": ""}`.

### Device_temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `release_left`, `release_right`, `release_both`, `double_left`, `double_right`, `single_left`, `single_right`, `hold_release_left`, `hold_release_left`.

### Operation_mode (enum, left endpoint)
Operation mode for left button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode_left` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode_left": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_left_relay`, `control_right_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Operation_mode (enum, right endpoint)
Operation mode for right button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode_right` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode_right": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_left_relay`, `control_right_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
