docs/devices/SJCGQ11LM.md, before:

---
title: "Xiaomi SJCGQ11LM control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi SJCGQ11LM via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-02-01T14:45:54
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi SJCGQ11LM

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SJCGQ11LM  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara water leak sensor |
| Exposes | battery, water_leak, battery_low, voltage, device_temperature, power_outage_count, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi SJCGQ11LM](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SJCGQ11LM.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Water_leak (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected a water leak.
Value can be found in the published state on the `water_leak` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` water_leak is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery_low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery_low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Device_temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Power_outage_count (numeric)
Number of power outages.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_count` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update SJCGQ11LM.md (#1922)
added pairing instructions, see also #1655

docs/devices/SJCGQ11LM.md, after:

---
title: "Xiaomi SJCGQ11LM control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi SJCGQ11LM via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-02-01T14:45:54
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi SJCGQ11LM

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SJCGQ11LM  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara water leak sensor |
| Exposes | battery, water_leak, battery_low, voltage, device_temperature, power_outage_count, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi SJCGQ11LM](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SJCGQ11LM.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->

## Pairing
Press and hold the reset button by pressing hard on the top of the device (water drop logo) for +- 5 seconds (until the blue light inside the device, under the water drop starts blinking). After this the device will automatically join.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Water_leak (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected a water leak.
Value can be found in the published state on the `water_leak` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` water_leak is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery_low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery_low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Device_temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Power_outage_count (numeric)
Number of power outages.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_count` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
