docs/devices/SM-0306E-2W.md, before:

---
title: "UseeLink SM-0306E-2W control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your UseeLink SM-0306E-2W via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-01-20T00:00:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# UseeLink SM-0306E-2W

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SM-0306E-2W  |
| Vendor  | [UseeLink](/supported-devices/#v=UseeLink)  |
| Description | 4 gang switch, with USB |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![UseeLink SM-0306E-2W](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SM-0306E-2W.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
Long press the button for 6s until the LED indicator flashes in blue, which means the device has entered pairing mode.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch (l1 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l1` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l1": ""}`.

### Switch (l2 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l2` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l2": ""}`.

### Switch (l3 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l3` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l3": "ON"}`, `{"state_l3": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l3": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l3": ""}`.

### Switch (l4 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l4` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l4": "ON"}`, `{"state_l4": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l4": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l4": ""}`.

### Switch (l5 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l5` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l5": "ON"}`, `{"state_l5": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l5": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l5": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update zigbee-herdsman-converters to 15.13.1

docs/devices/SM-0306E-2W.md, after:

---
title: "UseeLink SM-0306E-2W control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your UseeLink SM-0306E-2W via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-01-20T00:00:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# UseeLink SM-0306E-2W

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SM-0306E-2W  |
| Vendor  | [UseeLink](/supported-devices/#v=UseeLink)  |
| Description | 4 gang switch, with USB |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_outage_memory, lock (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![UseeLink SM-0306E-2W](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SM-0306E-2W.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing
Long press the button for 6s until the LED indicator flashes in blue, which means the device has entered pairing mode.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch (l1 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l1` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l1": ""}`.

### Switch (l2 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l2` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l2": ""}`.

### Switch (l3 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l3` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l3": "ON"}`, `{"state_l3": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l3": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l3": ""}`.

### Switch (l4 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l4` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l4": "ON"}`, `{"state_l4": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l4": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l4": ""}`.

### Switch (l5 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l5` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l5": "ON"}`, `{"state_l5": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l5": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l5": ""}`.

### Power_outage_memory (enum)
Recover state after power outage.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_memory` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `restore`.

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
