docs/devices/SNZB-02.md, before:

---
title: "SONOFF SNZB-02 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your SONOFF SNZB-02 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-07-10T21:03:07Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# SONOFF SNZB-02

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SNZB-02  |
| Vendor  | SONOFF  |
| Description | Temperature and humidity sensor |
| Exposes | battery, temperature, humidity, voltage, linkquality |
| Picture | ![SONOFF SNZB-02](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SNZB-02.jpg) |
| White-label | eWeLink RHK08 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Long press reset button for 5s until the LED indicator flashes three times, which means the device has entered pairing mode

### Battery
Uses a CR2450 battery
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add troubleshoot instructions for SONOFF SNZB-02
Notes based on https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/8971#issuecomment-1030698488 and https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/issues/11273#issuecomment-1102177689

docs/devices/SNZB-02.md, after:

---
title: "SONOFF SNZB-02 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your SONOFF SNZB-02 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-07-10T21:03:07Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# SONOFF SNZB-02

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SNZB-02  |
| Vendor  | SONOFF  |
| Description | Temperature and humidity sensor |
| Exposes | battery, temperature, humidity, voltage, linkquality |
| Picture | ![SONOFF SNZB-02](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SNZB-02.jpg) |
| White-label | eWeLink RHK08 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Troubleshoot
In case the sensor got stucked and will not send data anymore, try the following steps to restore it.
1. Force remove the device via the frontend
2. Restart Zigbee2MQTT
3. Repair the device

### Pairing
Long press reset button for 5s until the LED indicator flashes three times, which means the device has entered pairing mode

### Battery
Uses a CR2450 battery
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
