docs/devices/SNZB-02D.md, before:

---
title: "SONOFF SNZB-02D control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your SONOFF SNZB-02D via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-01-01T08:59:10
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# SONOFF SNZB-02D

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SNZB-02D  |
| Vendor  | [SONOFF](/supported-devices/#v=SONOFF)  |
| Description | Temperature and humidity sensor with screen |
| Exposes | battery, temperature, humidity, linkquality |
| Picture | ![SONOFF SNZB-02D](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SNZB-02D.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update SNZB-02D.md (#1869)
* Update SNZB-02D.md

add notes on battery, pairing, and display toggle

* Update SNZB-02D.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/SNZB-02D.md, after:

---
title: "SONOFF SNZB-02D control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your SONOFF SNZB-02D via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-01-01T08:59:10
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# SONOFF SNZB-02D

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SNZB-02D  |
| Vendor  | [SONOFF](/supported-devices/#v=SONOFF)  |
| Description | Temperature and humidity sensor with screen |
| Exposes | battery, temperature, humidity, linkquality |
| Picture | ![SONOFF SNZB-02D](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SNZB-02D.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Battery
Uses a CR2450 battery

### Pairing
Long press the pairing button for five seconds. The signal indicator on the display will begin to blink when in pairing mode.

### Temperature display
Double click the pairing button to toggle the display between Celsius and Fahrenheit. This does not change the unit of the measured temperature value. 

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
