docs/devices/SODA_S8.md, before:

---
title: "Tuya SODA_S8 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Tuya SODA_S8 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2024-06-30T19:12:33
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Tuya SODA_S8

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SODA_S8  |
| Vendor  | [Tuya](/supported-devices/#v=Tuya)  |
| Description | SODA S8 premium window handle |
| Exposes | battery, battery_low, vacation, alarm, alarm_switch, handlesound, opening_mode, temperature, humidity, keysound, sensitivity, position, button_left, button_right, duration, update_frequency, calibrate, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Tuya SODA_S8](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SODA_S8.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Battery low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Vacation (binary)
Vacation mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `vacation` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"vacation": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` vacation is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Alarm (enum)
Alarm.
Value can be found in the published state on the `alarm` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `ALARM`, `IDLE`.

### Alarm switch (binary)
Alarm enable.
Value can be found in the published state on the `alarm_switch` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"alarm_switch": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` alarm switch is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Handlesound (binary)
Handle closed sound.
Value can be found in the published state on the `handlesound` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"handlesound": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` handlesound is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Opening mode (enum)
Window tilt.
Value can be found in the published state on the `opening_mode` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `closed`, `tilted`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Keysound (binary)
Key beep sound.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keysound` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keysound": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` keysound is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Sensitivity (enum)
Sensitivity of the alarm sensor.
Value can be found in the published state on the `sensitivity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"sensitivity": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `max`.

### Position (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `position` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `up`, `right`, `down`, `left`.

### Button left (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `button_left` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `released`, `pressed`.

### Button right (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `button_right` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `released`, `pressed`.

### Duration (numeric)
Duration of the alarm.
Value can be found in the published state on the `duration` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"duration": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `300`.
The unit of this value is `sec`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `default`.

### Update frequency (numeric)
Update frequency.
Value can be found in the published state on the `update_frequency` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"update_frequency": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `700`.
The unit of this value is `min`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `default`.

### Calibrate (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `calibrate` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"calibrate": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `clear`, `execute`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update Notes section SODA_S8.md
Added notes section to documentation.

docs/devices/SODA_S8.md, after:

---
title: "Tuya SODA_S8 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Tuya SODA_S8 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2024-06-30T19:12:33
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Tuya SODA_S8

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SODA_S8  |
| Vendor  | [Tuya](/supported-devices/#v=Tuya)  |
| Description | SODA S8 premium window handle |
| Exposes | battery, battery_low, vacation, alarm, alarm_switch, handlesound, opening_mode, temperature, humidity, keysound, sensitivity, position, button_left, button_right, duration, update_frequency, calibrate, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Tuya SODA_S8](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SODA_S8.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
The handles are from [SODA GmBh](https://soda-gmbh.de/) and sold on [Amazon Germany](https://www.amazon.de/sp?ie=UTF8&isAmazonFulfilled=0&marketplaceSeller=1&seller=AS4J66PXH3SHW).

[Documentation/Manual](https://soda-gmbh.de/assets/download/S8_Premium_Anleitung.pdf)

### Pairing & Resetting
* To pair, press left button while inserting the batteries.

* To reset, press both buttons while inserting batteries.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Battery low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Vacation (binary)
Vacation mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `vacation` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"vacation": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` vacation is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Alarm (enum)
Alarm.
Value can be found in the published state on the `alarm` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `ALARM`, `IDLE`.

### Alarm switch (binary)
Alarm enable.
Value can be found in the published state on the `alarm_switch` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"alarm_switch": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` alarm switch is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Handlesound (binary)
Handle closed sound.
Value can be found in the published state on the `handlesound` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"handlesound": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` handlesound is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Opening mode (enum)
Window tilt.
Value can be found in the published state on the `opening_mode` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `closed`, `tilted`.

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Keysound (binary)
Key beep sound.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keysound` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keysound": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` keysound is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Sensitivity (enum)
Sensitivity of the alarm sensor.
Value can be found in the published state on the `sensitivity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"sensitivity": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `max`.

### Position (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `position` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `up`, `right`, `down`, `left`.

### Button left (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `button_left` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `released`, `pressed`.

### Button right (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `button_right` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `released`, `pressed`.

### Duration (numeric)
Duration of the alarm.
Value can be found in the published state on the `duration` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"duration": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `300`.
The unit of this value is `sec`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `default`.

### Update frequency (numeric)
Update frequency.
Value can be found in the published state on the `update_frequency` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"update_frequency": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `700`.
The unit of this value is `min`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `default`.

### Calibrate (enum)
Value can be found in the published state on the `calibrate` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"calibrate": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `clear`, `execute`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
