docs/devices/SRTS-A01.md, before:

---
title: "Xiaomi SRTS-A01 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi SRTS-A01 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-09-30T20:52:51
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi SRTS-A01

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SRTS-A01  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara Smart Radiator Thermostat E1 |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, preset), sensor, calibrated, lock (state), switch (state), window_open, away_preset_temperature, voltage, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi SRTS-A01](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SRTS-A01.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `preset`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `preset`: Mode of this device (similar to system_mode). To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"preset": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `manual`, `away`, `auto`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"preset": ""}`.

### Sensor (enum)
Select temperature sensor to use.
Value can be found in the published state on the `sensor` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"sensor": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"sensor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `internal`, `external`.

### Calibrated (binary)
Is the valve calibrated.
Value can be found in the published state on the `calibrated` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` calibrated is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
To read the current state of this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `window_detection` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_detection": "ON"}`, `{"window_detection": "OFF"}` or `{"window_detection": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_detection": ""}`.

### Window_open (binary)
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_open` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` window_open is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `valve_detection` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"valve_detection": "ON"}`, `{"valve_detection": "OFF"}` or `{"valve_detection": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"valve_detection": ""}`.

### Away_preset_temperature (numeric)
Away preset temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `away_preset_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"away_preset_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"away_preset_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-10` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add pairing instructions to device documentation (#1718)

docs/devices/SRTS-A01.md, after:

---
title: "Xiaomi SRTS-A01 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi SRTS-A01 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-09-30T20:52:51
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi SRTS-A01

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | SRTS-A01  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara Smart Radiator Thermostat E1 |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, preset), sensor, calibrated, lock (state), switch (state), window_open, away_preset_temperature, voltage, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi SRTS-A01](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/SRTS-A01.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->

## Notes

### Pairing
Press and hold the center ring for 10 seconds until the blue network indicator flashes.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `preset`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `preset`: Mode of this device (similar to system_mode). To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"preset": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `manual`, `away`, `auto`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"preset": ""}`.

### Sensor (enum)
Select temperature sensor to use.
Value can be found in the published state on the `sensor` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"sensor": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"sensor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `internal`, `external`.

### Calibrated (binary)
Is the valve calibrated.
Value can be found in the published state on the `calibrated` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` calibrated is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
To read the current state of this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"child_lock": ""}`.

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `window_detection` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"window_detection": "ON"}`, `{"window_detection": "OFF"}` or `{"window_detection": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"window_detection": ""}`.

### Window_open (binary)
Value can be found in the published state on the `window_open` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` window_open is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `valve_detection` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"valve_detection": "ON"}`, `{"valve_detection": "OFF"}` or `{"valve_detection": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"valve_detection": ""}`.

### Away_preset_temperature (numeric)
Away preset temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `away_preset_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"away_preset_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"away_preset_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-10` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
