docs/devices/TH1123ZB.md, before:

---
title: "Sinopé TH1123ZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Sinopé TH1123ZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-09-08T21:16:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Sinopé TH1123ZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TH1123ZB  |
| Vendor  | [Sinopé](/supported-devices/#v=Sinop%C3%A9)  |
| Description | Zigbee line volt thermostat |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, unoccupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, pi_heating_demand, running_state), thermostat_occupancy, second_display_mode, thermostat_outdoor_temperature, outdoor_temperature_timeout, enable_outdoor_temperature, temperature_display_mode, time_format, backlight_auto_dim, keypad_lockout, main_cycle_output, power, current, voltage, energy, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Sinopé TH1123ZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TH1123ZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Setting outdoor temperature
To set _outdoor temperature_, you need to send the value to the following MQTT topic:
```
zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_outdoor_temperature
```

If you want to automate the publishing of the outdoor temperature using Home Assistant, you may create an automation like this:

``` yaml
- id: 'Auto_Publish_Outdoor_Temprature'
  alias: Auto_Publish_Outdoor_Temprature
  description: Automatically Publish the outdoor temperature to thermostats
  trigger:
  - entity_id: sensor.outdoor_temprature_sensor
    platform: state
  condition: []
  action:
  - data:
      payload_template: '{{ states(''sensor.outdoor_temprature_sensor'') | string }}'
      topic: zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_outdoor_temperature
    service: mqtt.publish
```

### Enabling time
To enable _time_ you need to send a _blank_ message to the following MQTT topic:
```
zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_time
```
Every time the above message is sent, Zigbee2MQTT will calculate the current time and send it to the thermostat.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `unoccupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `pi_heating_demand`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `pi_heating_demand`: Position of the valve (= demanded heat) where 0% is fully closed and 100% is fully open. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the % between `0` and `100`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of the thermostat. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.

### Thermostat occupancy (enum)
Occupancy state of the thermostat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_occupancy` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unoccupied`, `occupied`.

### Second display mode (enum)
Displays the outdoor temperature and then returns to the set point in "auto" mode, or clears in "outdoor temp" mode when expired..
Value can be found in the published state on the `second_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"second_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"second_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `auto`, `setpoint`, `outdoor temp`.

### Thermostat outdoor temperature (numeric)
Outdoor temperature for the secondary display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-99.5` and the maximum value is `99.5`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Outdoor temperature timeout (numeric)
Time in seconds after which the outdoor temperature is considered to have expired.
Value can be found in the published state on the `outdoor_temperature_timeout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"outdoor_temperature_timeout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"outdoor_temperature_timeout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `30` and the maximum value is `64800`.
The unit of this value is `s`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `15 min`, `30 min`, `1 hour`.

### Enable outdoor temperature (binary)
DEPRECATED: Use second_display_mode or control via outdoor_temperature_timeout.
Value can be found in the published state on the `enable_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` enable outdoor temperature is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Temperature display mode (enum)
The temperature format displayed on the thermostat screen.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `celsius`, `fahrenheit`.

### Time format (enum)
The time format featured on the thermostat display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `time_format` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"time_format": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"time_format": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `24h`, `12h`.

### Backlight auto dim (enum)
Control backlight dimming behavior.
Value can be found in the published state on the `backlight_auto_dim` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `on_demand`, `sensing`.

### Keypad lockout (enum)
Enables or disables the device’s buttons.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keypad_lockout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unlock`, `lock1`.

### Main cycle output (enum)
The length of the control cycle: 15_sec=normal 15_min=fan.
Value can be found in the published state on the `main_cycle_output` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"main_cycle_output": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"main_cycle_output": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `15_sec`, `15_min`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Describe how to activate ecoMode (#2507)
* Describe how to activate ecoMode

* Add end note

docs/devices/TH1123ZB.md, after:

---
title: "Sinopé TH1123ZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Sinopé TH1123ZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-09-08T21:16:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Sinopé TH1123ZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TH1123ZB  |
| Vendor  | [Sinopé](/supported-devices/#v=Sinop%C3%A9)  |
| Description | Zigbee line volt thermostat |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, unoccupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, pi_heating_demand, running_state), thermostat_occupancy, second_display_mode, thermostat_outdoor_temperature, outdoor_temperature_timeout, enable_outdoor_temperature, temperature_display_mode, time_format, backlight_auto_dim, keypad_lockout, main_cycle_output, power, current, voltage, energy, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Sinopé TH1123ZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TH1123ZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Enabling time
To enable _time_ you need to send a _blank_ message to the following MQTT topic:
```
zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_time
```
Every time the above message is sent, Zigbee2MQTT will calculate the current time and send it to the thermostat.


### Setting outdoor temperature
To set _outdoor temperature_, you need to send the value to the following MQTT topic:
```
zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_outdoor_temperature
```

If you want to automate the publishing of the outdoor temperature using Home Assistant, you may create an automation like this:

``` yaml
- id: 'Auto_Publish_Outdoor_Temprature'
  alias: Auto_Publish_Outdoor_Temprature
  description: Automatically Publish the outdoor temperature to thermostats
  trigger:
  - entity_id: sensor.outdoor_temprature_sensor
    platform: state
  condition: []
  action:
  - data:
      payload_template: '{{ states(''sensor.outdoor_temprature_sensor'') | string }}'
      topic: zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_outdoor_temperature
    service: mqtt.publish
```

### Activate eco mode
To set the eco_mode, you need to send the value to the following MQTT topic:
```
zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/1/set
```
Different version of ecoMode exist :
- **ecoMode** : off:-128, celsius*+-10, amount of setpoint reduction/increase for peak and pre-heating or 0 only for the eco icon to flash
- **ecoMode1** : 255=100%, range: 0-99 Set pi_heating_demand percentage limit 0% to 99% (225 = 100%)
- **EcoMode2** : off:255, range: 0-100, set heating restart if room temperature goes x% below setpoint

If you want to enable the eco mode using Home Assistant, you may create an automation like this:

``` yaml
- id: 'activate_eco_mode'
  alias: Activate-eco_mode
  description: Do stuff for the eco mode
  trigger: []
  condition: []
  action:
  - data:
      payload_template: '{"write":{"cluster":"manuSpecificSinope","options":{},"payload":{"ecoMode":<VALUE>}}}'
      topic: zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/1/set
    service: mqtt.publish
```
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->

## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. This option can only decrease the precision, not increase it. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `unoccupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `pi_heating_demand`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `pi_heating_demand`: Position of the valve (= demanded heat) where 0% is fully closed and 100% is fully open. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the % between `0` and `100`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of the thermostat. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.

### Thermostat occupancy (enum)
Occupancy state of the thermostat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_occupancy` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unoccupied`, `occupied`.

### Second display mode (enum)
Displays the outdoor temperature and then returns to the set point in "auto" mode, or clears in "outdoor temp" mode when expired..
Value can be found in the published state on the `second_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"second_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"second_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `auto`, `setpoint`, `outdoor temp`.

### Thermostat outdoor temperature (numeric)
Outdoor temperature for the secondary display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-99.5` and the maximum value is `99.5`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Outdoor temperature timeout (numeric)
Time in seconds after which the outdoor temperature is considered to have expired.
Value can be found in the published state on the `outdoor_temperature_timeout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"outdoor_temperature_timeout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"outdoor_temperature_timeout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `30` and the maximum value is `64800`.
The unit of this value is `s`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepted: `15 min`, `30 min`, `1 hour`.

### Enable outdoor temperature (binary)
DEPRECATED: Use second_display_mode or control via outdoor_temperature_timeout.
Value can be found in the published state on the `enable_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` enable outdoor temperature is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Temperature display mode (enum)
The temperature format displayed on the thermostat screen.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `celsius`, `fahrenheit`.

### Time format (enum)
The time format featured on the thermostat display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `time_format` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"time_format": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"time_format": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `24h`, `12h`.

### Backlight auto dim (enum)
Control backlight dimming behavior.
Value can be found in the published state on the `backlight_auto_dim` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `on_demand`, `sensing`.

### Keypad lockout (enum)
Enables or disables the device’s buttons.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keypad_lockout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unlock`, `lock1`.

### Main cycle output (enum)
The length of the control cycle: 15_sec=normal 15_min=fan.
Value can be found in the published state on the `main_cycle_output` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"main_cycle_output": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"main_cycle_output": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `15_sec`, `15_min`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
