docs/devices/TH1300ZB.md, before:

---
title: "Sinopé TH1300ZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Sinopé TH1300ZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-04-08T17:49:06Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Sinopé TH1300ZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TH1300ZB  |
| Vendor  | [Sinopé](/supported-devices/#v=Sinop%C3%A9)  |
| Description | Zigbee smart floor heating thermostat |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, unoccupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, pi_heating_demand, running_state), thermostat_occupancy, enable_outdoor_temperature, temperature_display_mode, time_format, backlight_auto_dim, keypad_lockout, power, current, voltage, energy, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Sinopé TH1300ZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TH1300ZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Press the two buttons simultaneously for 3 seconds. The wireless icon will blink when searching
for the Zigbee network and stay steady when paired to it. Repeat if unsuccessful.

### Unpairing
Press the two buttons simultaneously for 10 seconds and release.
The device will restart. The wireless icon will disappear from the display.

### The following thermostats parameters can be changed trough MQTT

#### Occupancy / Unoccupancy
The thermostat can be instructed to use the occupancy or unoccupancy setpoints by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"thermostat_occupancy": "OCCUPANCY"}`
where `OCCUPANCY` is one of the following values: `occupied`, `unoccupied`.
The factory default value is `occupied`.

#### Floor control mode
The sensor used by the thermostat for temperature regulation can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"floor_control_mode": "SENSOR"}`
where `SENSOR` is one of the following values: `ambiant`, `floor`.
The factory default value is `floor`.

#### Ambient maximum heating setpoint
The maximum ambient temperature setpoint of the thermostat can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"ambiant_max_heat_setpoint": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is the desired value (between 5 and 36 Celcius).
This feature is disabled by default.

#### Floor minimum heating setpoint
The minimum floor temperature setpoint of the thermostat can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"floor_min_heat_setpoint": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is the desired value (between 5 and 36 Celcius).
This feature is disabled by default.

#### Floor maximum heating setpoint
The maximum floor temperature setpoint of the thermostat can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"floor_max_heat_setpoint": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is the desired value (between 5 and 36 Celcius).
This feature is disabled by default.

#### Floor temperature sensor
The floor thermistor temperature sensor value connected to the thermostat can be changed by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"temperature_sensor": "SENSOR"}`
where `SENSOR` is one of the following values: `10k`, `12k`.
The factory default value is `10k`.

#### Display backlight
The thermostat display can be set to turn on only when a button is pressed or stay on and auto dim by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"backlight_auto_dim": "BACKLIGHT"}`
where `BACKLIGHT` is one of the following values: `on demand`, `sensing`.
The factory default value is `sensing`.

#### Time to display
The time clock value to display on the thermostat can be set by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"thermostat_time": "TIME"}`
where `TIME` is the number of seconds since 2000-01-01 or empty.
The Zigbee gateway local time will be used when publishing an empty value.
By default, the time clock is not displayed.

#### Time format displayed
The time clock format on the thermostat display can be changed by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"time_format": "FORMAT"}`
where `FORMAT` is one of the following values: `12h`, `24h`.
The factory default value is `24h`.

#### Enable outdoor temperature display
The display of outdoor temperature on the thermostat can be enabled / disabled by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"enable_outdoor_temperature": "ENABLE"}`
where `ENABLE` is one of the following values: `on`, `off`.
`on` value will set the outdoor temperature refresh timeout to 3 hours.
`off` value will set the outdoor temperature refresh timeout to 30 seconds.
When the refresh timeout is expired the thermostat setpoint temperature will be displayed.
The outdoor temperature is not displayed by default.

#### Outdoor temperature to display
The outdoor temperature to display on the thermostat can be changed by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is between -100 to +100.

### The following status are reported by the thermostat

#### Groud fault circuit indicator status (GFCi)
Turns `on` when the thermostat GFCi detects a ground fault. The status is reported
to the device state as `gfci_status` every hour or when it changes.
`gfci_status` has one of the following values: `on`, `off`.
The default value is `off`.

#### Floor limit status
This status is `on` when the floor temperature exceeds the maximum floor heating setpoint.
It is reported to the device state as `floor_limit_status` every hour or when it changes.
`floor_limit_status` has one of the following values: `on`, `off`.
The default value is `off`.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `unoccupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `pi_heating_demand`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `36`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `pi_heating_demand`: Position of the valve (= demanded heat) where 0% is fully closed and 100% is fully open. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the % between `0` and `100`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of the thermostat. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.

### Thermostat_occupancy (enum)
Occupancy state of the thermostat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_occupancy` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unoccupied`, `occupied`.

### Enable_outdoor_temperature (binary)
Showing outdoor temperature on secondary display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `enable_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` enable_outdoor_temperature is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Temperature_display_mode (enum)
The temperature format displayed on the thermostat screen.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `celsius`, `fahrenheit`.

### Time_format (enum)
The time format featured on the thermostat display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `time_format` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"time_format": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"time_format": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `24h`, `12h`.

### Backlight_auto_dim (enum)
Control backlight dimming behavior.
Value can be found in the published state on the `backlight_auto_dim` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `on_demand`, `sensing`.

### Keypad_lockout (enum)
Enables or disables the device’s buttons.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keypad_lockout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unlock`, `lock1`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update zigbee-herdsman-converters to 15.13.1

docs/devices/TH1300ZB.md, after:

---
title: "Sinopé TH1300ZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Sinopé TH1300ZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-04-08T17:49:06Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Sinopé TH1300ZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TH1300ZB  |
| Vendor  | [Sinopé](/supported-devices/#v=Sinop%C3%A9)  |
| Description | Zigbee smart floor heating thermostat |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, unoccupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, pi_heating_demand, running_state), thermostat_occupancy, second_display_mode, thermostat_outdoor_temperature, outdoor_temperature_timeout, enable_outdoor_temperature, temperature_display_mode, time_format, backlight_auto_dim, keypad_lockout, power, current, voltage, energy, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Sinopé TH1300ZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TH1300ZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Press the two buttons simultaneously for 3 seconds. The wireless icon will blink when searching
for the Zigbee network and stay steady when paired to it. Repeat if unsuccessful.

### Unpairing
Press the two buttons simultaneously for 10 seconds and release.
The device will restart. The wireless icon will disappear from the display.

### The following thermostats parameters can be changed trough MQTT

#### Occupancy / Unoccupancy
The thermostat can be instructed to use the occupancy or unoccupancy setpoints by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"thermostat_occupancy": "OCCUPANCY"}`
where `OCCUPANCY` is one of the following values: `occupied`, `unoccupied`.
The factory default value is `occupied`.

#### Floor control mode
The sensor used by the thermostat for temperature regulation can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"floor_control_mode": "SENSOR"}`
where `SENSOR` is one of the following values: `ambiant`, `floor`.
The factory default value is `floor`.

#### Ambient maximum heating setpoint
The maximum ambient temperature setpoint of the thermostat can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"ambiant_max_heat_setpoint": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is the desired value (between 5 and 36 Celcius).
This feature is disabled by default.

#### Floor minimum heating setpoint
The minimum floor temperature setpoint of the thermostat can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"floor_min_heat_setpoint": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is the desired value (between 5 and 36 Celcius).
This feature is disabled by default.

#### Floor maximum heating setpoint
The maximum floor temperature setpoint of the thermostat can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"floor_max_heat_setpoint": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is the desired value (between 5 and 36 Celcius).
This feature is disabled by default.

#### Floor temperature sensor
The floor thermistor temperature sensor value connected to the thermostat can be changed by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"temperature_sensor": "SENSOR"}`
where `SENSOR` is one of the following values: `10k`, `12k`.
The factory default value is `10k`.

#### Display backlight
The thermostat display can be set to turn on only when a button is pressed or stay on and auto dim by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"backlight_auto_dim": "BACKLIGHT"}`
where `BACKLIGHT` is one of the following values: `on demand`, `sensing`.
The factory default value is `sensing`.

#### Time to display
The time clock value to display on the thermostat can be set by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"thermostat_time": "TIME"}`
where `TIME` is the number of seconds since 2000-01-01 or empty.
The Zigbee gateway local time will be used when publishing an empty value.
By default, the time clock is not displayed.

#### Time format displayed
The time clock format on the thermostat display can be changed by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"time_format": "FORMAT"}`
where `FORMAT` is one of the following values: `12h`, `24h`.
The factory default value is `24h`.

#### Enable outdoor temperature display
The display of outdoor temperature on the thermostat can be enabled / disabled by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"enable_outdoor_temperature": "ENABLE"}`
where `ENABLE` is one of the following values: `on`, `off`.
`on` value will set the outdoor temperature refresh timeout to 3 hours.
`off` value will set the outdoor temperature refresh timeout to 30 seconds.
When the refresh timeout is expired the thermostat setpoint temperature will be displayed.
The outdoor temperature is not displayed by default.

#### Outdoor temperature to display
The outdoor temperature to display on the thermostat can be changed by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is between -100 to +100.

### The following status are reported by the thermostat

#### Groud fault circuit indicator status (GFCi)
Turns `on` when the thermostat GFCi detects a ground fault. The status is reported
to the device state as `gfci_status` every hour or when it changes.
`gfci_status` has one of the following values: `on`, `off`.
The default value is `off`.

#### Floor limit status
This status is `on` when the floor temperature exceeds the maximum floor heating setpoint.
It is reported to the device state as `floor_limit_status` every hour or when it changes.
`floor_limit_status` has one of the following values: `on`, `off`.
The default value is `off`.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `unoccupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `pi_heating_demand`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `36`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `pi_heating_demand`: Position of the valve (= demanded heat) where 0% is fully closed and 100% is fully open. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the % between `0` and `100`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of the thermostat. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.

### Thermostat_occupancy (enum)
Occupancy state of the thermostat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_occupancy` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unoccupied`, `occupied`.

### Second_display_mode (enum)
Displays the outdoor temperature and then returns to the set point in "auto" mode, or clears in "outdoor temp" mode when expired..
Value can be found in the published state on the `second_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"second_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"second_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `auto`, `setpoint`, `outdoor temp`.

### Thermostat_outdoor_temperature (numeric)
Outdoor temperature for the secondary display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-99.5` and the maximum value is `99.5`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Outdoor_temperature_timeout (numeric)
Time in seconds after which the outdoor temperature is considered to have expired.
Value can be found in the published state on the `outdoor_temperature_timeout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"outdoor_temperature_timeout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"outdoor_temperature_timeout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `30` and the maximum value is `64800`.
The unit of this value is `Seconds`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `15 min`, `30 min`, `1 hour`.

### Enable_outdoor_temperature (binary)
DEPRECATED: Use second_display_mode or control via outdoor_temperature_timeout.
Value can be found in the published state on the `enable_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` enable_outdoor_temperature is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Temperature_display_mode (enum)
The temperature format displayed on the thermostat screen.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `celsius`, `fahrenheit`.

### Time_format (enum)
The time format featured on the thermostat display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `time_format` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"time_format": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"time_format": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `24h`, `12h`.

### Backlight_auto_dim (enum)
Control backlight dimming behavior.
Value can be found in the published state on the `backlight_auto_dim` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `on_demand`, `sensing`.

### Keypad_lockout (enum)
Enables or disables the device’s buttons.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keypad_lockout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unlock`, `lock1`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
