<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Press the two buttons simultaneously for 3 seconds. The wireless icon will blink when searching
for the Zigbee network and stay steady when paired to it. Repeat if unsuccessful.

### Unpairing
Press the two buttons simultaneously for 10 seconds and release.
The device will restart. The wireless icon will disappear from the display.

### The following thermostat parameters can be changed through MQTT

#### Occupancy / Unoccupancy
The thermostat can be instructed to use the occupancy or unoccupancy setpoints by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"thermostat_occupancy": "OCCUPANCY"}`
where `OCCUPANCY` is one of the following values: `occupied`, `unoccupied`.
The factory default value is `occupied`.

#### Floor control mode
The sensor used by the thermostat for temperature regulation can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"floor_control_mode": "SENSOR"}`
where `SENSOR` is one of the following values: `ambiant`, `floor`.
The factory default value is `floor`.

#### Ambient maximum heating setpoint
The maximum ambient temperature setpoint of the thermostat can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"ambiant_max_heat_setpoint": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is the desired value (between 5 and 36 Celsius).
This feature is disabled by default.

#### Floor minimum heating setpoint
The minimum floor temperature setpoint of the thermostat can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"floor_min_heat_setpoint": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is the desired value (between 5 and 36 Celsius).
This feature is disabled by default.

#### Floor maximum heating setpoint
The maximum floor temperature setpoint of the thermostat can be changed by publishing
to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"floor_max_heat_setpoint": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is the desired value (between 5 and 36 Celsius).
This feature is disabled by default.

#### Floor temperature sensor
The floor thermistor temperature sensor value connected to the thermostat can be changed by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"temperature_sensor": "SENSOR"}`
where `SENSOR` is one of the following values: `10k`, `12k`.
The factory default value is `10k`.

#### Display backlight
The thermostat display can be set to turn on only when a button is pressed or stay on and auto dim by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"backlight_auto_dim": "BACKLIGHT"}`
where `BACKLIGHT` is one of the following values: `on demand`, `sensing`.
The factory default value is `sensing`.

#### Time to display
The time clock value to display on the thermostat can be set by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"thermostat_time": "TIME"}`
where `TIME` is the number of seconds since 2000-01-01 or empty.
The Zigbee gateway local time will be used when publishing an empty value.
By default, the time clock is not displayed.

#### Time format displayed
The time clock format on the thermostat display can be changed by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"time_format": "FORMAT"}`
where `FORMAT` is one of the following values: `12h`, `24h`.
The factory default value is `24h`.

#### Enable outdoor temperature display
The display of outdoor temperature on the thermostat can be enabled / disabled by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"enable_outdoor_temperature": "ENABLE"}`
where `ENABLE` is one of the following values: `on`, `off`.
`on` value will set the outdoor temperature refresh timeout to 3 hours.
`off` value will set the outdoor temperature refresh timeout to 30 seconds.
When the refresh timeout is expired the thermostat setpoint temperature will be displayed.
The outdoor temperature is not displayed by default.

#### Outdoor temperature to display
The outdoor temperature to display on the thermostat can be changed by
publishing to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set {"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": "TEMPERATURE"}`
where `TEMPERATURE` is between -100 to +100.

### The following status are reported by the thermostat

#### Groud fault circuit indicator status (GFCi)
Turns `on` when the thermostat GFCi detects a ground fault. The status is reported
to the device state as `gfci_status` every hour or when it changes.
`gfci_status` has one of the following values: `on`, `off`.
The default value is `off`.

#### Floor limit status
This status is `on` when the floor temperature exceeds the maximum floor heating setpoint.
It is reported to the device state as `floor_limit_status` every hour or when it changes.
`floor_limit_status` has one of the following values: `on`, `off`.
The default value is `off`.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->
