docs/devices/TH1400ZB.md, before:

---
title: "Sinopé TH1400ZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Sinopé TH1400ZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-01-14T19:34:25Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Sinopé TH1400ZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TH1400ZB  |
| Vendor  | [Sinopé](/supported-devices/#v=Sinop%C3%A9)  |
| Description | Zigbee low volt thermostat |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, unoccupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, pi_heating_demand, running_state), max_heat_setpoint_limit, min_heat_setpoint_limit, thermostat_occupancy, enable_outdoor_temperature, temperature_display_mode, time_format, backlight_auto_dim, keypad_lockout, connected_load, floor_control_mode, floor_max_heat_setpoint, floor_min_heat_setpoint, ambiant_max_heat_setpoint, floor_temperature_sensor, main_cycle_output, aux_cycle_output, pump_protection, aux_connected_load, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Sinopé TH1400ZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TH1400ZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Setting outdoor temperature
To set the *outdoor temperature* (value below the Out label on the thermostat display), you need to send the value to the following MQTT
topic:

```
zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_outdoor_temperature
```

If you want to automate the publishing of the outdoor temperature using Home Assistant, you may create an automation like this:

``` yaml
- id: 'Auto_Publish_Outdoor_Temprature'
  alias: 'Publish outside temperature'
  description: 'Automatically Publish the outdoor temperature to thermostats'
  mode: single
  trigger:
  - platform: state
    entity_id: sensor.<OUTDOOR_TEMPERATURE_SENSOR_NAME>
  condition: []
  action:
  - service: mqtt.publish
    data:
      topic: zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_outdoor_temperature
      payload_template: "{{ states('sensor.<OUTDOOR_TEMPERATURE_SENSOR_NAME>') }}"
```

### Setting outdoor temperature
To enable time you need to send a blank message to the following MQTT topic:

```
zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_time
```

*Every time the above message is sent, Zigbee2MQTT will calculate the current time and send it to the thermostat.*

If the thermostat loses power, you need to do this again. For Home Assistant users: if you want to avoid remembering to do this, you can
add the following `action` to your `Auto_Publish_Outdoor_Temperature` automation (noted above).

``` yaml
  - service: mqtt.publish
    data:
      topic: zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_time
      payload: ''
```
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `unoccupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `pi_heating_demand`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `36`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `pi_heating_demand`: Position of the valve (= demanded heat) where 0% is fully closed and 100% is fully open. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the % between `0` and `100`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.

### Max_heat_setpoint_limit (numeric)
Maximum Heating set point limit.
Value can be found in the published state on the `max_heat_setpoint_limit` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"max_heat_setpoint_limit": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"max_heat_setpoint_limit": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `36`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Min_heat_setpoint_limit (numeric)
Minimum Heating set point limit.
Value can be found in the published state on the `min_heat_setpoint_limit` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"min_heat_setpoint_limit": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"min_heat_setpoint_limit": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `36`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Thermostat_occupancy (enum)
Occupancy state of the thermostat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_occupancy` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unoccupied`, `occupied`.

### Enable_outdoor_temperature (binary)
Showing outdoor temperature on secondary display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `enable_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` enable_outdoor_temperature is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Temperature_display_mode (enum)
The temperature format displayed on the thermostat screen.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `celsius`, `fahrenheit`.

### Time_format (enum)
The time format featured on the thermostat display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `time_format` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"time_format": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"time_format": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `24h`, `12h`.

### Backlight_auto_dim (enum)
The display backlight behavior.
Value can be found in the published state on the `backlight_auto_dim` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `on_demand`, `sensing`.

### Keypad_lockout (enum)
Enables or disables the device’s buttons.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keypad_lockout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unlock`, `lock1`.

### Connected_load (numeric)
The power in watts of the electrical load connected to the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `connected_load` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"connected_load": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"connected_load": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `1` and the maximum value is `20000`.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Floor_control_mode (enum)
Control mode using floor or ambient temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_control_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_control_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"floor_control_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `ambiant`, `floor`.

### Floor_max_heat_setpoint (numeric)
The maximum floor temperature limit of the floor when in ambient control mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_max_heat_setpoint` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_max_heat_setpoint": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"floor_max_heat_setpoint": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `7` and the maximum value is `36`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `off`.

### Floor_min_heat_setpoint (numeric)
The minimum floor temperature limit of the floor when in ambient control mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_min_heat_setpoint` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_min_heat_setpoint": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"floor_min_heat_setpoint": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `34`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `off`.

### Ambiant_max_heat_setpoint (numeric)
The maximum ambient temperature limit when in floor control mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `ambiant_max_heat_setpoint` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"ambiant_max_heat_setpoint": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"ambiant_max_heat_setpoint": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `36`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `off`.

### Floor_temperature_sensor (enum)
The floor sensor.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_temperature_sensor` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_temperature_sensor": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"floor_temperature_sensor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `10k`, `12k`.

### Main_cycle_output (enum)
The length of the control cycle according to the type of load connected to the thermostats.
Value can be found in the published state on the `main_cycle_output` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"main_cycle_output": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"main_cycle_output": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `15_sec`, `5_min`, `10_min`, `15_min`, `20_min`, `30_min`.

### Aux_cycle_output (enum)
The length of the control cycle according to the type of auxiliary load connected to the thermostats.
Value can be found in the published state on the `aux_cycle_output` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"aux_cycle_output": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"aux_cycle_output": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `15_sec`, `5_min`, `10_min`, `15_min`, `20_min`, `30_min`.

### Pump_protection (binary)
This function prevents the seizure of the pump.
Value can be found in the published state on the `pump_protection` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"pump_protection": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pump_protection": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` pump_protection is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Aux_connected_load (numeric)
The power in watts of the heater connected to the auxiliary output of the thermostat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `aux_connected_load` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"aux_connected_load": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"aux_connected_load": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `20000`.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update zigbee-herdsman-converters to 15.13.1

docs/devices/TH1400ZB.md, after:

---
title: "Sinopé TH1400ZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Sinopé TH1400ZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-01-14T19:34:25Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Sinopé TH1400ZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TH1400ZB  |
| Vendor  | [Sinopé](/supported-devices/#v=Sinop%C3%A9)  |
| Description | Zigbee low volt thermostat |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, unoccupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, pi_heating_demand, running_state), max_heat_setpoint_limit, min_heat_setpoint_limit, thermostat_occupancy, second_display_mode, thermostat_outdoor_temperature, outdoor_temperature_timeout, enable_outdoor_temperature, temperature_display_mode, time_format, backlight_auto_dim, keypad_lockout, connected_load, floor_control_mode, floor_max_heat_setpoint, floor_min_heat_setpoint, ambiant_max_heat_setpoint, floor_temperature_sensor, main_cycle_output, aux_cycle_output, pump_protection, aux_connected_load, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Sinopé TH1400ZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TH1400ZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Setting outdoor temperature
To set the *outdoor temperature* (value below the Out label on the thermostat display), you need to send the value to the following MQTT
topic:

```
zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_outdoor_temperature
```

If you want to automate the publishing of the outdoor temperature using Home Assistant, you may create an automation like this:

``` yaml
- id: 'Auto_Publish_Outdoor_Temprature'
  alias: 'Publish outside temperature'
  description: 'Automatically Publish the outdoor temperature to thermostats'
  mode: single
  trigger:
  - platform: state
    entity_id: sensor.<OUTDOOR_TEMPERATURE_SENSOR_NAME>
  condition: []
  action:
  - service: mqtt.publish
    data:
      topic: zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_outdoor_temperature
      payload_template: "{{ states('sensor.<OUTDOOR_TEMPERATURE_SENSOR_NAME>') }}"
```

### Setting outdoor temperature
To enable time you need to send a blank message to the following MQTT topic:

```
zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_time
```

*Every time the above message is sent, Zigbee2MQTT will calculate the current time and send it to the thermostat.*

If the thermostat loses power, you need to do this again. For Home Assistant users: if you want to avoid remembering to do this, you can
add the following `action` to your `Auto_Publish_Outdoor_Temperature` automation (noted above).

``` yaml
  - service: mqtt.publish
    data:
      topic: zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set/thermostat_time
      payload: ''
```
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `current_calibration`: Calibrates the current value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `current_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for current, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `unoccupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `pi_heating_demand`, `running_state`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `36`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `pi_heating_demand`: Position of the valve (= demanded heat) where 0% is fully closed and 100% is fully open. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pi_heating_demand": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the % between `0` and `100`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`. Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.

### Max_heat_setpoint_limit (numeric)
Maximum Heating set point limit.
Value can be found in the published state on the `max_heat_setpoint_limit` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"max_heat_setpoint_limit": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"max_heat_setpoint_limit": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `36`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Min_heat_setpoint_limit (numeric)
Minimum Heating set point limit.
Value can be found in the published state on the `min_heat_setpoint_limit` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"min_heat_setpoint_limit": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"min_heat_setpoint_limit": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `36`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Thermostat_occupancy (enum)
Occupancy state of the thermostat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_occupancy` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_occupancy": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unoccupied`, `occupied`.

### Second_display_mode (enum)
Displays the outdoor temperature and then returns to the set point in "auto" mode, or clears in "outdoor temp" mode when expired..
Value can be found in the published state on the `second_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"second_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"second_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `auto`, `setpoint`, `outdoor temp`.

### Thermostat_outdoor_temperature (numeric)
Outdoor temperature for the secondary display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `thermostat_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"thermostat_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-99.5` and the maximum value is `99.5`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Outdoor_temperature_timeout (numeric)
Time in seconds after which the outdoor temperature is considered to have expired.
Value can be found in the published state on the `outdoor_temperature_timeout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"outdoor_temperature_timeout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"outdoor_temperature_timeout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `30` and the maximum value is `64800`.
The unit of this value is `Seconds`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `15 min`, `30 min`, `1 hour`.

### Enable_outdoor_temperature (binary)
DEPRECATED: Use second_display_mode or control via outdoor_temperature_timeout.
Value can be found in the published state on the `enable_outdoor_temperature` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"enable_outdoor_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` enable_outdoor_temperature is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Temperature_display_mode (enum)
The temperature format displayed on the thermostat screen.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature_display_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"temperature_display_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `celsius`, `fahrenheit`.

### Time_format (enum)
The time format featured on the thermostat display.
Value can be found in the published state on the `time_format` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"time_format": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"time_format": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `24h`, `12h`.

### Backlight_auto_dim (enum)
The display backlight behavior.
Value can be found in the published state on the `backlight_auto_dim` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"backlight_auto_dim": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `on_demand`, `sensing`.

### Keypad_lockout (enum)
Enables or disables the device’s buttons.
Value can be found in the published state on the `keypad_lockout` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"keypad_lockout": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `unlock`, `lock1`.

### Connected_load (numeric)
The power in watts of the electrical load connected to the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `connected_load` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"connected_load": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"connected_load": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `1` and the maximum value is `20000`.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Floor_control_mode (enum)
Control mode using floor or ambient temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_control_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_control_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"floor_control_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `ambiant`, `floor`.

### Floor_max_heat_setpoint (numeric)
The maximum floor temperature limit of the floor when in ambient control mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_max_heat_setpoint` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_max_heat_setpoint": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"floor_max_heat_setpoint": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `7` and the maximum value is `36`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `off`.

### Floor_min_heat_setpoint (numeric)
The minimum floor temperature limit of the floor when in ambient control mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_min_heat_setpoint` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_min_heat_setpoint": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"floor_min_heat_setpoint": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `34`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `off`.

### Ambiant_max_heat_setpoint (numeric)
The maximum ambient temperature limit when in floor control mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `ambiant_max_heat_setpoint` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"ambiant_max_heat_setpoint": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"ambiant_max_heat_setpoint": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `5` and the maximum value is `36`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.
Besides the numeric values the following values are accepected: `off`.

### Floor_temperature_sensor (enum)
The floor sensor.
Value can be found in the published state on the `floor_temperature_sensor` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"floor_temperature_sensor": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"floor_temperature_sensor": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `10k`, `12k`.

### Main_cycle_output (enum)
The length of the control cycle according to the type of load connected to the thermostats.
Value can be found in the published state on the `main_cycle_output` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"main_cycle_output": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"main_cycle_output": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `15_sec`, `5_min`, `10_min`, `15_min`, `20_min`, `30_min`.

### Aux_cycle_output (enum)
The length of the control cycle according to the type of auxiliary load connected to the thermostats.
Value can be found in the published state on the `aux_cycle_output` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"aux_cycle_output": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"aux_cycle_output": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `15_sec`, `5_min`, `10_min`, `15_min`, `20_min`, `30_min`.

### Pump_protection (binary)
This function prevents the seizure of the pump.
Value can be found in the published state on the `pump_protection` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"pump_protection": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"pump_protection": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` pump_protection is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Aux_connected_load (numeric)
The power in watts of the heater connected to the auxiliary output of the thermostat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `aux_connected_load` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"aux_connected_load": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"aux_connected_load": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `20000`.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
