docs/devices/TS0012.md, before:

---
title: "TuYa TS0012 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0012 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-08-11T22:17:44Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0012

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0012  |
| Vendor  | [TuYa](/supported-devices/#v=TuYa)  |
| Description | Smart light switch - 2 gang |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_on_behavior, backlight_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0012](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0012.jpg) |
| White-label | Vrey VR-X712U-0013, TUYATEC GDKES-02TZXD, Earda ESW-2ZAA-EU, Moes ZS-US2-WH-MS, Moes ZS-US2-BK-MS |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Rebrand
Also branded as Yagusmart in the UK, with a version that does not require a neutral wire.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch (left endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_left` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_left": "ON"}`, `{"state_left": "OFF"}` or `{"state_left": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_left": ""}`.

### Switch (right endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_right` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_right": "ON"}`, `{"state_right": "OFF"}` or `{"state_right": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_right": ""}`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Backlight_mode (enum)
Mode of the backlight.
Value can be found in the published state on the `backlight_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"backlight_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"backlight_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `normal`, `inverted`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update notes on SZ-ESW01-AU.md (#2032)
* Update notes on SZ-ESW01-AU.md

Added indication that this device is a Zigbee router.

* Removed router indication for SZ-ESW01-AU device and add non-router indication to TS0011/TS0012 instead.

docs/devices/TS0012.md, after:

---
title: "TuYa TS0012 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0012 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-08-11T22:17:44Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0012

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0012  |
| Vendor  | [TuYa](/supported-devices/#v=TuYa)  |
| Description | Smart light switch - 2 gang |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_on_behavior, backlight_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0012](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0012.jpg) |
| White-label | Vrey VR-X712U-0013, TUYATEC GDKES-02TZXD, Earda ESW-2ZAA-EU, Moes ZS-US2-WH-MS, Moes ZS-US2-BK-MS |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
This device does not act as a Zigbee router.


### Rebrand
Also branded as Yagusmart in the UK, with a version that does not require a neutral wire.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch (left endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_left` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_left": "ON"}`, `{"state_left": "OFF"}` or `{"state_left": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_left": ""}`.

### Switch (right endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_right` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_right": "ON"}`, `{"state_right": "OFF"}` or `{"state_right": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_right": ""}`.

### Power_on_behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `previous`, `on`.

### Backlight_mode (enum)
Mode of the backlight.
Value can be found in the published state on the `backlight_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"backlight_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"backlight_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `normal`, `inverted`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
