<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Information
- Tested with `_TZ3000_xabckq1v`
- Based on Silabs chipset

### Battery
Uses 1 × CR2430 (3V). *Other form-factors may also fit: CR2032.*

### Button positions
|   1   |   2   |
| :---: | :---: |
|   3   |   4   |

### Pairing

The remote can be used in one of the following modes:
1. paired to a [Zigbee network](#zigbee-network--factory-reset) *(with binding support: control one group)*

2. without network, bound to one group of devices, via [Touchlink](#touchlink---no-network)  

#### Zigbee network / Factory reset

**Hold button 3 for 10s to factory reset and join a Zigbee network.**  
All LEDs flash green until the remote connects to the network.  
*A good battery may be needed to complete pairing.*

#### Touchlink - no network

This remote uses [Touchlink](./../guide/usage/touchlink.md) to **set-up** Zigbee binding and allow using it without a coordinator. Follow these steps:

1. If the remote was previously connected to a network, or you want to clear bindings, **factory reset it.** All LEDs flash green
2. Remove and re-insert the battery to exit "network join mode". LEDs stop flashing
3. Power off nearby devices, that you **don't want** to control with it
4. **Hold buttons 1+3 for 6s to activate Touchlink mode.** LED 3 flashes green
5. **Bring the remote close to the target device to start binding.**  
   This will remove the target device from its network and add it to the remote's hidden Zigbee network
6. When successful, the target device identifies, and the remote's LED stops blinking

Doing this inside the network has no effect, even if LED flashes.  
In that case, binding must be set up through the coordinator:

### Binding
This remote can directly control one group.  
Directly controlling individual devices is not supported.

Binding/unbinding appears successful, but it's not effective.  
Instead, follow these steps:
1. Put the remote in command operation mode
2. **Add it to the group you want to control**

### Operation modes
This device has two modes:
1. command mode *(7 actions sent to coordinator + controlling the selected group)*
2. event mode *(12 actions sent to coordinator)*

**Event mode** adds a small delay, needed to differentiate between single/double clicks.  
However, it bugs with multiple quick presses, making the remote feel unresponsive.  
Actions are queued and emitted very slowly, 1-2 at a time.  
*Messages are non-standard Zigbee commands.*

**Command mode** is much more responsive in comparison.  
Actions are sent immediately.  
*Messages are standard Zigbee commands.*

To switch between modes:
- **hold buttons 2+4 for 6s** until LED 3 flashes once
- or set [operation_mode](#operation-mode-enum) in Zigbee2MQTT

### Action mapping

|  Press | Button | Mode    |                                 Z2M Action | Bind action                            |
| -----: | ------ | ------- | -----------------------------------------: | -------------------------------------- |
| Single | n      | event   |                                 `n_single` | -                                      |
| Double | n      | event   |                                 `n_double` | -                                      |
|   Long | n      | event   |                                   `n_hold` | -                                      |
| Single | 1      | command |                                       `on` | *On*                                   |
| Single | 2      | command |                       `brightness_step_up` | *Step (Up, 51 units, 1s transition)*   |
|   Long | 2      | command |   `brightness_move_up` + `brightness_stop` | *Move (Up, 51 units/s)* + *Stop*       |
| Single | 3      | command |                                      `off` | *Off*                                  |
| Single | 4      | command |                     `brightness_step_down` | *Step (Down, 51 units, 1s transition)* |
|   Long | 4      | command | `brightness_move_down` + `brightness_stop` | *Move (Down, 51 units/s)* + *Stop*     |

- Long press duration is 3s (until the LED turns off)

- The corresponding LED blinks as a click confirmation
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->