docs/devices/TS0203.md, before:

---
title: "TuYa TS0203 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0203 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-12-15T17:27:48Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0203

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0203  |
| Vendor  | TuYa  |
| Description | Door sensor |
| Exposes | contact, battery_low, tamper, battery, voltage, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0203](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0203.jpg) |
| White-label | CR Smart Home TS0203, TuYa iH-F001 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Contact (binary)
Indicates if the contact is closed (= true) or open (= false).
Value can be found in the published state on the `contact` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `false` contact is ON, if `true` OFF.

### Battery_low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery_low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Tamper (binary)
Indicates whether the device is tampered.
Value can be found in the published state on the `tamper` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` tamper is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update TS0203.md to include pairing instructions. (#1663)
* Update TS0203.md

* Update TS0203.md

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/TS0203.md, after:

---
title: "TuYa TS0203 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0203 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-12-15T17:27:48Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0203

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0203  |
| Vendor  | TuYa  |
| Description | Door sensor |
| Exposes | contact, battery_low, tamper, battery, voltage, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0203](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0203.jpg) |
| White-label | CR Smart Home TS0203, TuYa iH-F001 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Pairing 
Press and hold the reset switch on the device, the pin hole on the side of the device, using the provided reset pin for +- 5 seconds (until the red light starts blinking). After this the device will automatically join. 
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Contact (binary)
Indicates if the contact is closed (= true) or open (= false).
Value can be found in the published state on the `contact` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `false` contact is ON, if `true` OFF.

### Battery_low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery_low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Tamper (binary)
Indicates whether the device is tampered.
Value can be found in the published state on the `tamper` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` tamper is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
