docs/devices/TS0207_water_leak_detector.md, before:

---
title: "TuYa TS0207_water_leak_detector control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0207_water_leak_detector via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-10-01T17:18:02Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0207_water_leak_detector

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0207_water_leak_detector  |
| Vendor  | TuYa  |
| Description | Water leak detector |
| Exposes | water_leak, battery_low, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0207_water_leak_detector](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0207_water_leak_detector.jpg) |
| White-label | CR Smart Home TS0207 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Water_leak (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected a water leak.
Value can be found in the published state on the `water_leak` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` water_leak is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery_low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery_low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Notes for TS0207_water_leak_detector

docs/devices/TS0207_water_leak_detector.md, after:

---
title: "TuYa TS0207_water_leak_detector control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0207_water_leak_detector via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-10-01T17:18:02Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0207_water_leak_detector

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0207_water_leak_detector  |
| Vendor  | TuYa  |
| Description | Water leak detector |
| Exposes | water_leak, battery_low, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0207_water_leak_detector](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0207_water_leak_detector.jpg) |
| White-label | CR Smart Home TS0207 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
Device drops from zigbee network after a short period of time and doesn't rejoin.  Appears to be a known issue without any resolution.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Water_leak (binary)
Indicates whether the device detected a water leak.
Value can be found in the published state on the `water_leak` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` water_leak is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery_low (binary)
Indicates if the battery of this device is almost empty.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery_low` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
If value equals `true` battery_low is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
