docs/devices/TS0601_din.md, before:

---
title: "TuYa TS0601_din control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0601_din via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-05-01T14:47:09Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0601_din

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0601_din  |
| Vendor  | TuYa  |
| Description | Zigbee smart energy meter DDS238-2 Zigbee |
| Exposes | switch (state), voltage, power, current, energy, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0601_din](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0601_din.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update TS0601_din.md (#1521)
* Update TS0601_din.md

Added pairing and manual toggle sections.

* Update TS0601_din.md

* Update TS0601_din.md

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/TS0601_din.md, after:

---
title: "TuYa TS0601_din control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0601_din via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-05-01T14:47:09Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0601_din

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0601_din  |
| Vendor  | TuYa  |
| Description | Zigbee smart energy meter DDS238-2 Zigbee |
| Exposes | switch (state), voltage, power, current, energy, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0601_din](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0601_din.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Pairing
In order to enter pairing mode, hold the button until you see "--Init-" on the screen.

## Manual toggle
In order to toggle the relay manually do a triple press on the button.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Current (numeric)
Instantaneous measured electrical current.
Value can be found in the published state on the `current` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `A`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
