docs/devices/TS0601_switch.md, before:

---
title: "TuYa TS0601_switch control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0601_switch via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-30T20:52:56Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0601_switch

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0601_switch  |
| Vendor  | [TuYa](/supported-devices/#v=TuYa)  |
| Description | 1, 2, 3 or 4 gang switch |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0601_switch](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0601_switch.jpg) |
| White-label | Norklmes MKS-CM-W5, Somgoms ZSQB-SMB-ZB, Moes WS-EUB1-ZG, AVATTO ZGB-WS-EU |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Switch (l1 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l1` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Switch (l2 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l2` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Switch (l3 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l3` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l3": "ON"}`, `{"state_l3": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l3": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Switch (l4 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l4` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l4": "ON"}`, `{"state_l4": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l4": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add note about pairing on TS0601_switch (#1789)
* Add note about pairing on TS0601_switch

* Update TS0601_switch.md

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/TS0601_switch.md, after:

---
title: "TuYa TS0601_switch control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0601_switch via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-30T20:52:56Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0601_switch

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0601_switch  |
| Vendor  | [TuYa](/supported-devices/#v=TuYa)  |
| Description | 1, 2, 3 or 4 gang switch |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0601_switch](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0601_switch.jpg) |
| White-label | Norklmes MKS-CM-W5, Somgoms ZSQB-SMB-ZB, Moes WS-EUB1-ZG, AVATTO ZGB-WS-EU |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Pairing

Press any button 5 times, after this, click the button one more and hold the button.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Switch (l1 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l1` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Switch (l2 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l2` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Switch (l3 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l3` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l3": "ON"}`, `{"state_l3": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l3": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Switch (l4 endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_l4` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l4": "ON"}`, `{"state_l4": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l4": "TOGGLE"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
