docs/devices/TS0601_dimmer_3.md, before:

---
title: "TuYa TS0601_dimmer_3 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0601_dimmer_3 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-11-01T16:06:49
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0601_dimmer_3

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0601_dimmer_3  |
| Vendor  | [TuYa](/supported-devices/#v=TuYa)  |
| Description | 3 gang smart dimmer |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness), linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0601_dimmer_3](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0601_dimmer_3.jpg) |
| White-label | Moes ZS-EUD_3gang |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Light (l1 endpoint)
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l1": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness_l1": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness_l1": ""}`.

### Light (l2 endpoint)
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l2": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness_l2": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness_l2": ""}`.

### Light (l3 endpoint)
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l3": "ON"}`, `{"state_l3": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l3": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l3": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness_l3": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness_l3": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add pairing notes for MOES dimmer (#1917)
* Update TS0601_dimmer_2.md

* Update TS0601_dimmer_3.md

docs/devices/TS0601_dimmer_3.md, after:

---
title: "TuYa TS0601_dimmer_3 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0601_dimmer_3 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-11-01T16:06:49
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0601_dimmer_3

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0601_dimmer_3  |
| Vendor  | [TuYa](/supported-devices/#v=TuYa)  |
| Description | 3 gang smart dimmer |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness), linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0601_dimmer_3](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0601_dimmer_3.jpg) |
| White-label | Moes ZS-EUD_3gang |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Pairing
Turn off the light switches (no blue light). Press one of the switch buttons for 6 times, and hold on the 6th time for a few seconds. Release when the blue indicators are flashing fast. The device is in pairing mode.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Light (l1 endpoint)
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l1": "ON"}`, `{"state_l1": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l1": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l1": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness_l1": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness_l1": ""}`.

### Light (l2 endpoint)
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l2": "ON"}`, `{"state_l2": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l2": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l2": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness_l2": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness_l2": ""}`.

### Light (l3 endpoint)
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_l3": "ON"}`, `{"state_l3": "OFF"}` or `{"state_l3": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_l3": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness_l3": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness_l3": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
