docs/devices/TS0601_dimmer_knob.md, before:

---
title: "TuYa TS0601_dimmer_knob control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0601_dimmer_knob via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-01-01T08:59:10
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0601_dimmer_knob

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0601_dimmer_knob  |
| Vendor  | [TuYa](/supported-devices/#v=TuYa)  |
| Description | Zigbee smart knob dimmer |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, min_brightness), light_type, indicator_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0601_dimmer_knob](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0601_dimmer_knob.jpg) |
| White-label | Moes WS-SY-EURD, Moes WS-SY-EURD-WH-MS |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `min_brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.

### Light_type (enum)
Type of light attached to the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `light_type` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"light_type": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `led`, `incandescent`, `halogen`.

### Indicator_mode (enum)
Mode of the indicator light.
Value can be found in the published state on the `indicator_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"indicator_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"indicator_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `none`, `relay`, `pos`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Ts0601 smart knob dimmer (#1852)
* Added TS0601_dimmer_knob.jpg image

* Added TS0601_dimmer_knob.md notes

* Added pairing instructions

* Added TS0601_dimmer_knob.md notes

* Added pairing instructions

* Update TS0601_dimmer_knob.md

* Update TS0601_dimmer_knob.md

* Update TS0601_dimmer_knob.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/TS0601_dimmer_knob.md, after:

---
title: "TuYa TS0601_dimmer_knob control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa TS0601_dimmer_knob via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2023-01-01T08:59:10
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa TS0601_dimmer_knob

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | TS0601_dimmer_knob  |
| Vendor  | [TuYa](/supported-devices/#v=TuYa)  |
| Description | Zigbee smart knob dimmer |
| Exposes | light (state, brightness, min_brightness), light_type, indicator_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa TS0601_dimmer_knob](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/TS0601_dimmer_knob.jpg) |
| White-label | Moes WS-SY-EURD, Moes WS-SY-EURD-WH-MS |

<!-- Notes BEGIN -->
## Notes

### Min/max brightness
Only 'min_brightness', but not 'max_brightness' is provided.

### Pairing
To pair the device, the knob must be pressed for 5 sec. Sometimes, the pairing mode works only, if the light is on. Additionally, it seems the device can only be paired directly to the coordinator, but not to routers.
<!-- Notes END -->

## Exposes

### Light 
This light supports the following features: `state`, `brightness`, `min_brightness`.
- `state`: To control the state publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`. To read the state send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.
- `brightness`: To control the brightness publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"brightness": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is a number between `0` and `254`. To read the brightness send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"brightness": ""}`.

### Light_type (enum)
Type of light attached to the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `light_type` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"light_type": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `led`, `incandescent`, `halogen`.

### Indicator_mode (enum)
Mode of the indicator light.
Value can be found in the published state on the `indicator_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"indicator_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"indicator_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `none`, `relay`, `pos`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
