docs/devices/WS-EUK02.md, before:

---
title: "Aqara WS-EUK02 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Aqara WS-EUK02 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-08-01T20:41:55Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Aqara WS-EUK02

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | WS-EUK02  |
| Vendor  | [Aqara](/supported-devices/#v=Aqara)  |
| Description | Smart wall switch H1 EU (no neutral, double rocker) |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_outage_memory, flip_indicator_light, led_disabled_night, power_outage_count, device_temperature, operation_mode, mode_switch, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Aqara WS-EUK02](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/WS-EUK02.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch (left endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_left` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_left": "ON"}`, `{"state_left": "OFF"}` or `{"state_left": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_left": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the switch will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the switch firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

### Switch (right endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_right` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_right": "ON"}`, `{"state_right": "OFF"}` or `{"state_right": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_right": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the switch will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the switch firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

### Power outage memory (binary)
Enable/disable the power outage memory, this recovers the on/off mode after power failure.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_memory` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` power outage memory is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Flip indicator light (binary)
After turn on, the indicator light turns on while switch is off, and vice versa.
Value can be found in the published state on the `flip_indicator_light` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"flip_indicator_light": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"flip_indicator_light": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` flip indicator light is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### LED disabled night (binary)
Enable/disable the LED at night.
Value can be found in the published state on the `led_disabled_night` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"led_disabled_night": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_disabled_night": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` lED disabled night is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Power outage count (numeric)
Number of power outages (since last pairing).
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_count` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Device temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Operation mode (enum, left endpoint)
Decoupled mode for left button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode_left` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"operation_mode_left": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode_left": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Operation mode (enum, right endpoint)
Decoupled mode for right button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode_right` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"operation_mode_right": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode_right": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Mode switch (enum)
Anti flicker mode can be used to solve blinking issues of some lights.Quick mode makes the device respond faster..
Value can be found in the published state on the `mode_switch` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"mode_switch": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"mode_switch": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `anti_flicker_mode`, `quick_mode`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `single_left`, `double_left`, `single_right`, `double_right`, `single_both`, `double_both`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add pairing instructions for WS-EUK02 (#2604)

docs/devices/WS-EUK02.md, after:

---
title: "Aqara WS-EUK02 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Aqara WS-EUK02 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2021-08-01T20:41:55Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Aqara WS-EUK02

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | WS-EUK02  |
| Vendor  | [Aqara](/supported-devices/#v=Aqara)  |
| Description | Smart wall switch H1 EU (no neutral, double rocker) |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_outage_memory, flip_indicator_light, led_disabled_night, power_outage_count, device_temperature, operation_mode, mode_switch, action, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Aqara WS-EUK02](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/WS-EUK02.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->

## Notes

### Pairing
Press and hold the right button for 5 seconds to enter pairing mode. The blue LED will start to blink when in pairing mode.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch (left endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_left` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_left": "ON"}`, `{"state_left": "OFF"}` or `{"state_left": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_left": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the switch will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the switch firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

### Switch (right endpoint)
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state_right` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state_right": "ON"}`, `{"state_right": "OFF"}` or `{"state_right": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state_right": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the switch will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the switch firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

### Power outage memory (binary)
Enable/disable the power outage memory, this recovers the on/off mode after power failure.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_memory` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` power outage memory is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Flip indicator light (binary)
After turn on, the indicator light turns on while switch is off, and vice versa.
Value can be found in the published state on the `flip_indicator_light` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"flip_indicator_light": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"flip_indicator_light": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` flip indicator light is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### LED disabled night (binary)
Enable/disable the LED at night.
Value can be found in the published state on the `led_disabled_night` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"led_disabled_night": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"led_disabled_night": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` lED disabled night is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Power outage count (numeric)
Number of power outages (since last pairing).
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_count` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Device temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Operation mode (enum, left endpoint)
Decoupled mode for left button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode_left` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"operation_mode_left": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode_left": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Operation mode (enum, right endpoint)
Decoupled mode for right button.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode_right` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"operation_mode_right": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode_right": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Mode switch (enum)
Anti flicker mode can be used to solve blinking issues of some lights.Quick mode makes the device respond faster..
Value can be found in the published state on the `mode_switch` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"mode_switch": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"mode_switch": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `anti_flicker_mode`, `quick_mode`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `single_left`, `double_left`, `single_right`, `double_right`, `single_both`, `double_both`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
