docs/devices/WS-USC03.md, before:

---
title: "Xiaomi WS-USC03 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi WS-USC03 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-30T20:52:56Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi WS-USC03

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | WS-USC03  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara smart wall switch (neutral, single rocker) |
| Exposes | switch (state), action, flip_indicator_light, power_outage_count, device_temperature, power, energy, voltage, power_outage_memory, operation_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi WS-USC03](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/WS-USC03.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `single`, `double`.

### Flip_indicator_light (binary)
After turn on, the indicator light turns on while switch is off, and vice versa.
Value can be found in the published state on the `flip_indicator_light` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"flip_indicator_light": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"flip_indicator_light": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` flip_indicator_light is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Power_outage_count (numeric)
Number of power outages (since last pairing).
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_count` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Device_temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Power_outage_memory (binary)
Enable/disable the power outage memory, this recovers the on/off mode after power failure.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_memory` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` power_outage_memory is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Operation_mode (enum)
Decoupled mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"operation_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add pairing information for WS-USC03
It was difficult to find pairing information for this model online, partly because the other Aqara smart switch seems more popular.

A different Aqara device had "hold for 5 seconds" to enter pairing mode, so I tried that and it worked, so I thought I should document it here.

docs/devices/WS-USC03.md, after:

---
title: "Xiaomi WS-USC03 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi WS-USC03 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-30T20:52:56Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi WS-USC03

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | WS-USC03  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara smart wall switch (neutral, single rocker) |
| Exposes | switch (state), action, flip_indicator_light, power_outage_count, device_temperature, power, energy, voltage, power_outage_memory, operation_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi WS-USC03](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/WS-USC03.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


## Notes

### Pairing
Hold the top button for 5 seconds, until the LED flashes.


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`

* `power_calibration`: Calibrates the power value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `power_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for power, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `device_temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the device_temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `energy_calibration`: Calibrates the energy value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `energy_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for energy, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `voltage_calibration`: Calibrates the voltage value (percentual offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `voltage_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for voltage, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `single`, `double`.

### Flip_indicator_light (binary)
After turn on, the indicator light turns on while switch is off, and vice versa.
Value can be found in the published state on the `flip_indicator_light` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"flip_indicator_light": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"flip_indicator_light": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `ON` flip_indicator_light is ON, if `OFF` OFF.

### Power_outage_count (numeric)
Number of power outages (since last pairing).
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_count` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.

### Device_temperature (numeric)
Temperature of the device.
Value can be found in the published state on the `device_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Power (numeric)
Instantaneous measured power.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `W`.

### Energy (numeric)
Sum of consumed energy.
Value can be found in the published state on the `energy` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `kWh`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Measured electrical potential value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `V`.

### Power_outage_memory (binary)
Enable/disable the power outage memory, this recovers the on/off mode after power failure.
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_outage_memory` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_outage_memory": NEW_VALUE}`.
If value equals `true` power_outage_memory is ON, if `false` OFF.

### Operation_mode (enum)
Decoupled mode.
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"operation_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `control_relay`, `decoupled`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
