docs/devices/WXKG15LM.md, before:

---
title: "Xiaomi WXKG15LM control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi WXKG15LM via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-07-01T08:15:09
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi WXKG15LM

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | WXKG15LM  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara wireless remote switch H1 (double rocker) |
| Exposes | battery, voltage, action, click_mode, operation_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi WXKG15LM](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/WXKG15LM.jpg) |
| White-label | Xiaomi WRS-R02 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Pairing
Factory reset the switch by pressing and holding left and right rocker for 10 seconds. This will allow put the remote in pairing mode and pair to Zigbee2MQTT.

### Change clickmode
If you have issues changing the click_mode with Zigbee2MQTT you can switch between click mode physically. This is done by clicking either of the two rockers quickly five times. The click mode will then toggle between fast mode and multi mode.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `single_left`, `single_right`, `single_both`, `double_left`, `double_right`, `double_both`, `triple_left`, `triple_right`, `triple_both`, `hold_left`, `hold_right`, `hold_both`.

### Click_mode (enum)
Click mode, fast: only supports single click which will be send immediately after clicking.multi: supports more events like double and hold.
Value can be found in the published state on the `click_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"click_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"click_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `fast`, `multi`.

### Operation_mode (enum)
Operation mode, select "command" to enable bindings (wake up the device before changing modes!).
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"operation_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `command`, `event`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Adding a note about a current todo in the base converter (#1804)

docs/devices/WXKG15LM.md, after:

---
title: "Xiaomi WXKG15LM control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Xiaomi WXKG15LM via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-07-01T08:15:09
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Xiaomi WXKG15LM

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | WXKG15LM  |
| Vendor  | [Xiaomi](/supported-devices/#v=Xiaomi)  |
| Description | Aqara wireless remote switch H1 (double rocker) |
| Exposes | battery, voltage, action, click_mode, operation_mode, linkquality |
| Picture | ![Xiaomi WXKG15LM](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/WXKG15LM.jpg) |
| White-label | Xiaomi WRS-R02 |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Pairing
Factory reset the switch by pressing and holding left and right rocker for 10 seconds. This will allow put the remote in pairing mode and pair to Zigbee2MQTT.

### Change clickmode
If you have issues changing the click_mode with Zigbee2MQTT you can switch between click mode physically. This is done by clicking either of the two rockers quickly five times. The click mode will then toggle between fast mode and multi mode.

### Binding
Please note, that currently you will only get one endpoint for binding even though there are two rockers (see https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee-herdsman-converters/blob/eed5fde987891f996c428339569dbff1893e62a1/devices/xiaomi.js#L2370). You will always receive the `toggle_1` event no matter whick rocker you use.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Voltage (numeric)
Voltage of the battery in millivolts.
Value can be found in the published state on the `voltage` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `mV`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `single_left`, `single_right`, `single_both`, `double_left`, `double_right`, `double_both`, `triple_left`, `triple_right`, `triple_both`, `hold_left`, `hold_right`, `hold_both`.

### Click_mode (enum)
Click mode, fast: only supports single click which will be send immediately after clicking.multi: supports more events like double and hold.
Value can be found in the published state on the `click_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"click_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"click_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `fast`, `multi`.

### Operation_mode (enum)
Operation mode, select "command" to enable bindings (wake up the device before changing modes!).
Value can be found in the published state on the `operation_mode` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"operation_mode": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"operation_mode": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `command`, `event`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
