docs/devices/ZBMINIL2.md, before:

---
title: "SONOFF ZBMINIL2 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your SONOFF ZBMINIL2 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-12-01T15:07:19
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# SONOFF ZBMINIL2

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | ZBMINIL2  |
| Vendor  | [SONOFF](/supported-devices/#v=SONOFF)  |
| Description | Zigbee smart switch (no neutral) |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![SONOFF ZBMINIL2](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/ZBMINIL2.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the switch will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the switch firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss. If you get an `UNSUPPORTED_ATTRIBUTE` error, the device does not support it..
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Update ZBMINIL2.md (#2626)
Add note for those seeking a Zigbee routing device.

docs/devices/ZBMINIL2.md, after:

---
title: "SONOFF ZBMINIL2 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your SONOFF ZBMINIL2 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-12-01T15:07:19
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# SONOFF ZBMINIL2

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | ZBMINIL2  |
| Vendor  | [SONOFF](/supported-devices/#v=SONOFF)  |
| Description | Zigbee smart switch (no neutral) |
| Exposes | switch (state), power_on_behavior, linkquality |
| Picture | ![SONOFF ZBMINIL2](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/ZBMINIL2.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes
### Router functionality
The device type is 'End Device' and cannot function as a Zigbee router.

<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## OTA updates
This device supports OTA updates, for more information see [OTA updates](../guide/usage/ota_updates.md).


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

#### On with timed off
When setting the state to ON, it might be possible to specify an automatic shutoff after a certain amount of time. To do this add an additional property `on_time` to the payload which is the time in seconds the state should remain on.
Additionnaly an `off_wait_time` property can be added to the payload to specify the cooldown time in seconds when the switch will not answer to other on with timed off commands.
Support depend on the switch firmware. Some devices might require both `on_time` and `off_wait_time` to work
Examples : `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300}`, `{"state" : "ON", "on_time": 300, "off_wait_time": 120}`.

### Power-on behavior (enum)
Controls the behavior when the device is powered on after power loss. If you get an `UNSUPPORTED_ATTRIBUTE` error, the device does not support it..
Value can be found in the published state on the `power_on_behavior` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": ""}`.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"power_on_behavior": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `off`, `on`, `toggle`, `previous`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
