docs/devices/ZBMINI.md, before:

---
title: "SONOFF ZBMINI control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your SONOFF ZBMINI via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-12-01T19:02:25Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# SONOFF ZBMINI

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | ZBMINI  |
| Vendor  | [SONOFF](/supported-devices/#v=SONOFF)  |
| Description | Zigbee two way smart switch |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![SONOFF ZBMINI](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/ZBMINI.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Device stuck
In case of switching the coordinators a device may stuck in error state which is indicated by slowly blinking light (about 1 flash per second).
To switch a device to a pairing mode power it off for 10 sec. After power on it enters pairing mode automatically.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Provice instructions to re-pair using a Hue dimmer switch (#2381)

docs/devices/ZBMINI.md, after:

---
title: "SONOFF ZBMINI control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your SONOFF ZBMINI via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-12-01T19:02:25Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# SONOFF ZBMINI

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | ZBMINI  |
| Vendor  | [SONOFF](/supported-devices/#v=SONOFF)  |
| Description | Zigbee two way smart switch |
| Exposes | switch (state), linkquality |
| Picture | ![SONOFF ZBMINI](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/ZBMINI.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes

### Re-pairing
ZBMINI can be factory reset / re-paired with a help of a Hue dimmer switch. This is extremely helpful when your device isn't easily reachable to use the reset pin (i.e. when already hidden in a back box). See [instructions on Hue dimmer switch page](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/devices/324131092621.html#using-the-dimmer-to-reset-other-zigbee-devices).

### Device stuck
In case of switching the coordinators a device may stuck in error state which is indicated by slowly blinking light (about 1 flash per second).
To switch a device to a pairing mode power it off for 10 sec. After power on it enters pairing mode automatically.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `state_action`: State actions will also be published as 'action' when true (default false). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Switch 
The current state of this switch is in the published state under the `state` property (value is `ON` or `OFF`).
To control this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"state": "ON"}`, `{"state": "OFF"}` or `{"state": "TOGGLE"}`.
To read the current state of this switch publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"state": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
