docs/devices/Zen-01-W.md, before:

---
title: "Zen Zen-01-W control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Zen Zen-01-W via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-09-08T21:16:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Zen Zen-01-W

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | Zen-01-W  |
| Vendor  | Zen  |
| Description | Thermostat |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, running_state, local_temperature_calibration, pi_heating_demand), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Zen Zen-01-W](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/Zen-01-W.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `running_state`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `pi_heating_demand`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `10` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `auto`, `heat`, `cool`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`, `cool`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to be used in the local_temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Add documentation for cooling setpoint Zen-01-W
Add documentation for functionality added in https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee-herdsman-converters/pull/4325

docs/devices/Zen-01-W.md, after:

---
title: "Zen Zen-01-W control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Zen Zen-01-W via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2019-09-08T21:16:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Zen Zen-01-W

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | Zen-01-W  |
| Vendor  | Zen  |
| Description | Thermostat |
| Exposes | climate (occupied_heating_setpoint, occupied_cooling_setpoint, local_temperature, system_mode, running_state, local_temperature_calibration, pi_heating_demand), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Zen Zen-01-W](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/Zen-01-W.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `thermostat_unit`: Controls the temperature unit of the thermostat (default celsius). The value must be one of `celsius`, `fahrenheit`

* `legacy`: Set to false to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended), will change structure of the published payload (default true). The value must be `true` or `false`


## Exposes

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `occupied_heating_setpoint`, `occupied_cooling_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `system_mode`, `running_state`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `pi_heating_demand`.
- `occupied_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint for heating. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `10` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `occupied_cooling_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint for cooling. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"occupied_cooling_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `10` and `31`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"occupied_cooling_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `auto`, `heat`, `cool`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`, `cool`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to be used in the local_temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"local_temperature": ""}`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
