docs/devices/ZG-227ZL.md, before:

---
title: "TuYa ZG-227ZL control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa ZG-227ZL via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-11-09T12:35:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa ZG-227ZL

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | ZG-227ZL  |
| Vendor  | [TuYa](/supported-devices/#v=TuYa)  |
| Description | Temperature & humidity LCD sensor |
| Exposes | temperature, humidity, temperature_unit, temperature_calibration, humidity_calibration, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa ZG-227ZL](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/ZG-227ZL.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.


## Exposes

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Temperature_unit (enum)
Temperature unit.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature_unit` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"temperature_unit": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `celsius`, `fahrenheit`.

### Temperature_calibration (numeric)
Temperature calibration.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature_calibration` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"temperature_calibration": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-2` and the maximum value is `2`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Humidity_calibration (numeric)
Humidity calibration.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity_calibration` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"humidity_calibration": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `-30` and the maximum value is `30`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %, can take up to 24 hours before reported..
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

add ZG-205-A.md (#2182)
* add new tuya sensor

* zg-227z

* add ZG-225Z

* Update ZG-225Z.md

* Update ZG-102ZL.md

* Update ZG-225Z.md

* Update ZG-227ZL.md

* ADD ZG-205ZL AND ZG-205Z

* Change picture

* Modify ZG-205Z-A

---------

Co-authored-by: Koen Kanters <koenkanters94@gmail.com>

docs/devices/ZG-227ZL.md, after:

---
title: "TuYa ZG-227ZL control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your TuYa ZG-227ZL via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2022-11-09T12:35:00Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# TuYa ZG-227ZL

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | ZG-227ZL  |
| Vendor  | TuYa  |
| Description | Temperature & humidity LCD sensor |
| Exposes | temperature, humidity, battery, linkquality |
| Picture | ![TuYa ZG-227ZL](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/ZG-227ZL.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->


## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `temperature_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for temperature, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `temperature_calibration`: Calibrates the temperature value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

* `humidity_precision`: Number of digits after decimal point for humidity, takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number with a minimum value of `0` and with a with a maximum value of `3`

* `humidity_calibration`: Calibrates the humidity value (absolute offset), takes into effect on next report of device. The value must be a number.

### Reading and Setting Values

As a low power device, the sensor isn't reachable most of the time, but
only when active (e.g. because it Update temperature and humidity). Therefore, requests to read
or set values (i.e. `Unit of temperature` or `Calibration of temperature`) will only work when the sensor.

## Exposes

### Temperature (numeric)
Measured temperature value.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Humidity (numeric)
Measured relative humidity.
Value can be found in the published state on the `humidity` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Unit of temperature (enum)
A unit of temperature.
Value can be found in the published state on the `temperature_unit` property.
It's possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
Enum 'Celsius':0 or 'Fahrenheit':1.

### Calibration of temperature (numeric)
Calibration of temperature
Value can be found in the published state on the `temp_calibration` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `-2.0` and the maximum value is `+2.0`.
The unit of this value is `℃`.

### Calibration of humidity (numeric)
Calibration of humidity
Value can be found in the published state on the `hum_calibration` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `-30%` and the maximum value is `+30%`.
The unit of this value is `℃`.

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
