docs/advanced/remote-adapter/connect_to_a_remote_adapter.md, before:

# Connect to a remote adapter
This how-to explains how to run Zigbee2MQTT with an adapter on a remote location.
We will use ser2net for this which allows to connect to a serial port over TCP.
In this way you can e.g. setup a Raspberry Pi Zero with the adapter connected while running Zigbee2MQTT on a different system. The instructions below have to be executed on the system where the adapter is connected to.

::: warning
WiFi-based Serial-to-IP bridges are not recommended as the serial protocol does not have enough fault-tolerance to handle packet loss or latency delays that can normally occur over WiFi connections.
:::

## 1. Install ser2net
```bash
sudo apt-get install ser2net
```

## 2(a). Configure ser2net (<4.0)
```bash
sudo nano /etc/ser2net.conf
```

Add the following entry, replace `/dev/ttyACM0` with the correct path to your adapter.

```
20108:raw:0:/dev/ttyACM0:115200 8DATABITS NONE 1STOPBIT
```

After this reboot the system.
```bash
reboot
```

## 2(b). Configure ser2net (>=4.0)
```bash
sudo nano /etc/ser2net.yaml
```

Add the following entry, replace `/dev/ttyACM0` with the correct path to your adapter.

```
connection: &con01
  accepter: tcp,20108
  connector: serialdev,/dev/ttyACM0,115200n81,local
  options:
    kickolduser: true
```

With a Slaesh coordinator, you need to set the DTR and RTS pins of the RS232 interfece in a specific way. The current (2023-02-04) version of Raspberry Pi OS does not have recent enough of ser2net to do that correctly, see https://github.com/cminyard/ser2net/issues/46. You might need to build the "gensi" and the "ser2net" packages on your rpi yourself. Other distributions might already have a more recent version. Once you have a version of ser2net that supports the "dtr=off" setting, use the following configuration:

```
connection: &con01
  accepter: tcp,20108
  connector: serialdev,/dev/ttyACM0,115200n81,local,dtr=off,rts=off
  options:
    kickolduser: true
```

For ConBee II / RaspBee II, use the following configuration:

```
connection: &con01
  accepter: tcp,20108
  connector: serialdev,/dev/ttyACM0,115200n81,nobreak,local
  options:
    kickolduser: true
```

After this reboot the system.
```bash
reboot
```


## 3. Configure
Now edit the Zigbee2MQTT `configuration.yaml` accordingly, replace `192.168.2.13` with the IP or hostname of your system where the adapter is connected to.

```yaml
serial:
    port: 'tcp://192.168.2.13:20108'
```

Done! Now you can start Zigbee2MQTT.

Commit message:

Extend the warning about using an unstable connection
Extend the warning about why users should be aware before use an unstable connection to a Zigbee Coordinator serial interface.

The reason for extending and firther generalizing this general warning making it clear that it is not recommend to use a WiFi, WAN and VPN connection between the Zigbee gateway host application and a network-attached Zigbee Coordinator with Serial-Proxy-Server is that some such remote adapters now include a built-in VPN and because of that some people in the Home Assistant community have begun suggesting that it is a good idea that normal users should connect Zigbee2MQTT (or the ZHA integration) running one site directly to a Zigbee Coordinator located on a second site via VPN over WAN instead of setting up another instance of Zigbee2MQTT to run locally on that second site.

docs/advanced/remote-adapter/connect_to_a_remote_adapter.md, after:

# Connect to a remote adapter
This how-to explains how to run Zigbee2MQTT with an adapter on a remote location.
We will use ser2net for this which allows to connect to a serial port over TCP.
In this way you can e.g. setup a Raspberry Pi Zero with the adapter connected while running Zigbee2MQTT on a different system. The instructions below have to be executed on the system where the adapter is connected to.

::: warning
Be aware that it is not recommended to use a Zigbee Coordinator via a Serial-Proxy-Server (also known as Serial-to-IP bridge or Ser2Net remote adapter) over a WiFi, WAN, or VPN connection.

Serial protocols used by Zigbee Coordinator do not have enough robustness, resilience, or fault-tolerance to handle packet loss and latency delays that can occur over unstable connections.

Zigbee Coordinator requires a stable local connection to its serial port interface with no drops in communication between it and the Zigbee gateway application running on the host computer.

Thus be warned that connecting to a network-attached remote Zigbee Coordinator over WiFi/WAN/VPN using Ser2Net or other Serial Proxy/Forwarding Tunnel is not supported for normal operation.
:::

## 1. Install ser2net
```bash
sudo apt-get install ser2net
```

## 2(a). Configure ser2net (<4.0)
```bash
sudo nano /etc/ser2net.conf
```

Add the following entry, replace `/dev/ttyACM0` with the correct path to your adapter.

```
20108:raw:0:/dev/ttyACM0:115200 8DATABITS NONE 1STOPBIT
```

After this reboot the system.
```bash
reboot
```

## 2(b). Configure ser2net (>=4.0)
```bash
sudo nano /etc/ser2net.yaml
```

Add the following entry, replace `/dev/ttyACM0` with the correct path to your adapter.

```
connection: &con01
  accepter: tcp,20108
  connector: serialdev,/dev/ttyACM0,115200n81,local
  options:
    kickolduser: true
```

With a Slaesh coordinator, you need to set the DTR and RTS pins of the RS232 interfece in a specific way. The current (2023-02-04) version of Raspberry Pi OS does not have recent enough of ser2net to do that correctly, see https://github.com/cminyard/ser2net/issues/46. You might need to build the "gensi" and the "ser2net" packages on your rpi yourself. Other distributions might already have a more recent version. Once you have a version of ser2net that supports the "dtr=off" setting, use the following configuration:

```
connection: &con01
  accepter: tcp,20108
  connector: serialdev,/dev/ttyACM0,115200n81,local,dtr=off,rts=off
  options:
    kickolduser: true
```

For ConBee II / RaspBee II, use the following configuration:

```
connection: &con01
  accepter: tcp,20108
  connector: serialdev,/dev/ttyACM0,115200n81,nobreak,local
  options:
    kickolduser: true
```

After this reboot the system.
```bash
reboot
```


## 3. Configure
Now edit the Zigbee2MQTT `configuration.yaml` accordingly, replace `192.168.2.13` with the IP or hostname of your system where the adapter is connected to.

```yaml
serial:
    port: 'tcp://192.168.2.13:20108'
```

Done! Now you can start Zigbee2MQTT.
