docs/guide/configuration/more-config-options.md, before:

---
sidebarDepth: 1
---

# More configuration options

## Network map

```yaml
# Optional: networkmap options
map_options:
  graphviz:
    # Optional: Colors to be used in the graphviz network map (default: shown below)
    colors:
      fill:
        enddevice: '#fff8ce'
        coordinator: '#e04e5d'
        router: '#4ea3e0'
      font:
        coordinator: '#ffffff'
        router: '#ffffff'
        enddevice: '#000000'
      line:
        active: '#009900'
        inactive: '#994444'
```


## External converters

You can define external converters to e.g. add support for a DiY device. The extension can be a file with `.js`
extension in the `data` directory or a NPM package. Ensure that default export from your external converter exports an
array or device object (refer to the definition in the `devices` folder of zigbee-herdsman-converters). Some examples
can be found [here](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/tree/master/docs/externalConvertersExample). For this
example put the files in the `data` folder and add the following to `configuration.yaml`:

```yaml
external_converters:
  - freepad_ext.js
  - one-more-converter.js
```

See also [How to support new devices](../../advanced/support-new-devices/01_support_new_devices.md).

Commit message:

Add clarity that external convertr take precedence (#1561)

docs/guide/configuration/more-config-options.md, after:

---
sidebarDepth: 1
---

# More configuration options

## Network map

```yaml
# Optional: networkmap options
map_options:
  graphviz:
    # Optional: Colors to be used in the graphviz network map (default: shown below)
    colors:
      fill:
        enddevice: '#fff8ce'
        coordinator: '#e04e5d'
        router: '#4ea3e0'
      font:
        coordinator: '#ffffff'
        router: '#ffffff'
        enddevice: '#000000'
      line:
        active: '#009900'
        inactive: '#994444'
```


## External converters

You can define external converters to e.g. add support for a DiY device. The extension can be a file with `.js`
extension in the `data` directory or a NPM package. Ensure that default export from your external converter exports an
array or device object (refer to the definition in the `devices` folder of zigbee-herdsman-converters). Some examples
can be found [here](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/tree/master/docs/externalConvertersExample). For this
example put the files in the `data` folder and add the following to `configuration.yaml`:

Note that external converters take precedence of standard converters

```yaml
external_converters:
  - freepad_ext.js
  - one-more-converter.js
```

See also [How to support new devices](../../advanced/support-new-devices/01_support_new_devices.md).
